<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2003-03"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2003-03" when="2003-03-18">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>18 March 2003</date></meeting><author>Lou Burnard</author></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM005</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>Made by editing <ref target="tcm05-sb.txt">SB's email of 18 March</ref>, using notes
    taken by LB. SB notes that his text
         <q>was created from the notes I took (in TEI
          Lite, btw) during the conversation, with some additions
          provided by the notes MP took and sent to me; with a few
          afterthoughts as well, usually relegated to &lt;note&gt;
          elements.</q></p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm05</change><change>30 Mar 03 LB: first draft</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
<body>

<p>The following were present: Syd Bauman (SB), David
     Birnbaum (DB) in part, Lou Burnard (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD), David 
Durand (DD),  Laurent Romary (LR), Chris Ruotolo
     (CR) in part,
Susan Schreibman (SS), John Unsworth (JU), Perry Willett (PW),
     Christian Wittern (CW).
    </p>
<list type="ordered">
<item n="1">Actions from <ref target="tcm04.html">previous
      meeting</ref>:  all actions not deemed already complete are on today's
      agenda. It was agreed to defer to  the    next meeting the
      question of who should succeed     JU as chair.
    </item>
<item n="2">Council approved the procedure defined in <ref target="../Drafts/edw78.html">EDW78</ref>, and
        actioned the editors to begin implementing them.</item>
<item>CR reported progress from the <ref target="../Activities/MI/">Migration Work Group</ref>. The expert
 group has finished its draft and repository representatives had begun
        testing. There had been a useful joint meeting in College Park. The biggest
        problem so far identified was what should replace SDATA
        entities in XML DTDs. A structure has been defined for writing
        up the final reports, which included  a template for
        individual case studies. Plans for surveying existing TEI 
        projects had been scaled back somewhat but would continue. It
        was planned to hold a further meeting (of the whole group if
        funds permit) June 16/17th in
        Alicante, and the reports should be ready in time for TEI
        AGM. Council thanked CR for her report and for the Group's
        good progress.</item>
<item><p>Reporting on  the <ref target="../Activities/CE/">Character Encoding workgroup</ref>, CW said that
<list><item>he had drafted a working paper on SDATA entities which had
        been discussed in some detail, but which the workgroup had not
        been able to endorse; work on this had now been suspended.</item>
<item>the group was instead making substantial progress towards
        recommendations for a
        markup scheme for character set extensions (see
        <ref target="../Activities/CE/cew06.html">CE W06</ref>). Although only a preliminary draft, this was now
        undergoing test implementation</item>
<item>the group had requested the new ML workgroup to consider whether
        or not it was realistic to disallow any kind of  CDATA content
        in attribute values. Without such a prohibition,
        representation of non-Unicode characters in TEI documents by
        elements would be at best problematic.</item>
     </list></p>
<p>SR reported that the ML Workgroup has briefly considered this
        question. It seemed advisable to get a sense of the scale of
        the problem, and he suggested the editors should review all
        existing TEI attributes, characterising each as tokenizable,
        numeric, or textual. In DTD world, the textual ones should be
        left unchanged; in schema world, however, equivalent child
        elements could be generated. </p>
<p>Council agreed that further work was needed to decide whether this
        proposal was necessarily restricted to schemaland, how the
         content models and attributes for generated elements should
        be determined, and whether such a scheme might generate name
        clashes. Proposals should be sent to the ML list for further
        discussion. 
<note type="action"><label>Editors</label><date>1 May</date> to produce categorised
        list of attributes and investigate possible name clashes</note>
<note type="action"><label>CW</label><date>1 May</date> to propose content models for generated sub-elements</note>
        </p>
    </item>
<item n="3">DD reported that the <ref target="../Activities/SO">Standoff workgroup</ref> continued to make  slow
          progress. Some papers were now available on the  web
          site, (<ref target="../Activities/SO/sow01.html">SO W01</ref> discusses use of Xpointer and gives an overview of the groups
          major concerns; <ref target="../Activities/SO/sow02.html">SO W02</ref> is a discussion of the
          canonical reference scheme described in the Guidelines;
          <ref target="../Activities/SO/sow03.html">SO W03</ref> is a working paper on graph description); several
          others are in progress and should be available by end of
          April in time for d1scussion at the Council's May meeting. 
Council was requested to review SO W01 as soon
          as possible.
<note type="action"><label>SB</label><date>1 April</date>to update SO website with details of papers
          as they become available</note>
<note type="action"><label>DD</label><date>30 April</date>to make remaining work group drafts available to
          Council</note> </item>
<item>MP reported that Consuelo Dutschke had now delivered
          extensive documentation of the original TEI MS Description Workgroup's proposals for mss
          description, which were now available in MS Word format
          from <ref target="http://www.merrilee.org/tei-mss/">MD's
          website</ref>. In line with the Manuscript Taskforce's <ref target="tcw04.html">charge</ref>, Council now
          requested DB, MD, and MP to review these drafts and identify
          an achievable programme of  work for harmonizing them and 
          the <ref target="../../Master/Reference/">MASTER
          scheme</ref>. This should fall somewhere
          between simply producing a list of differences
          between the two sets of proposals and merging them to a
          single coherent scheme. LB agreed to set
          up a web-site area for this Task force (Now done: <ref target="../Activities/MS/"/>) <note type="action"><label>MP, MD,
          DB</label><date>asap</date> to review available drafts and
          initiate task force activity</note></item>
<item>SR reported that the Metalanguage Taskforce had been set up, as
          per <ref target="tcw03.html">its charge</ref>,  with
himself as chair, and membership of  CW, DD,
          Norm Walsh and Michael Sperberg-McQueen and the
          editors. In
          discussion it has endorsed the existing <soCalled>literate
          programming</soCalled> model of the Guidelines, and has 
          produced a proof-of-concept protype for P5, in which   schema definitions using 
          RelaxNG are generated from an extended version of the
          current  ODD model. SR is currently working on a replacement
          for the pizzachef (called Roma) which will deliver TEI
          conformant schemas as DTDs or in RelaxNg. Council was
          suitably impressed.  Taskforce working documents are
          maintained at <ref target="../Activities/META/"/>. </item>
    <item>Council endorsed the <ref target="tcw01.html">charge</ref> to set up a  joint wg on
          Feature Structures as a new work item for ISO TC37-SC4. LR's proposal
has now been progressed within ISO: an official letter requesting
          status of liaison was  to be sent. ISO member bodies have
          three months to comment on the  new work item proposal;
          there will be a short meeting on 6/7 July in Sapporo which
          should compile the comments received and  instruct an
          editorial workgroup to work on the proposed document. JU will
          be in Japan and may be able to attend the meeting. SR noted
          that producing a free-standing feature-structure validation
          module would be an interesting exercise for the new
          metalanguage taskforce.
<note type="action"><label>LR</label><date>?</date> to send current draft documents to LB
          for the website.</note>
     <note type="action"><label>LB/JU</label><date>immediate</date> to progress letter requesting liaison
          status</note>
     <note type="action"><label>SR</label><date>?</date> to investigate feasibility of embedding
          Feature Structures eg in Docbook</note>
    </item>
<item>Council discussed  <ref target="../Activities/GD/">documents submitted by Patrick Durusau</ref> (PD)
        proposing to set up a work group to redraft current chapter
        on graphs networks and trees. It was felt that the chapter was
        more concerned with
 graphs as an abstract formalism than with
        graphs as lines, and that the basis on which graphic formats were
        selected for discussion in PD's drafts was not clear. The immediate need for
        the TEI was to decide whether or not a chapter on this topic
        should be retained in the Guidelines.
<note type="action"><label>JU and LR</label><date>immediate</date> to produce detailed feedback which JU would
        pass to PD</note></item>
<item>PW reported that the IMLS Grant application had been submitted on time, and
        that a response should be expected before September. Some
          <soCalled>pre-grant activity</soCalled> would be expected
        before then. JU suggested setting up an e-mail discussion list
        to include
          Martha Crowley (the program officer). 
<note type="action"><label>PW</label><date>1 May</date> to set up discussion list, to include  all council
          members who did not explicitly opt out</note></item>
    <item>LR  reported that there would be a European call for
        proposals for "e-content creation" in December for which he was
        working with Alois Pichler on a project called Lyric that
        would involve use of FS and standoff. </item>
    <item>LB reported that optimism about Marie Curie funding had
        proved unfounded. The TEI was named in at least two competing
        EU FP6 bids (ECHO and Hyper). Outcomes would be known in May.
    </item>
   </list>
    </body>
  </text></TEI>