<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2003-01">
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title>
    <meeting n="2003-01" when="2003-01-21">TEI Technical Council online meeting : <date>21 January
     2003</date></meeting>
    <author>Lou Burnard</author>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <distributor>TEI Website</distributor>
    <idno>TCM004</idno>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc>
    <p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p>
    <p>Made by editing <ref target="tcm04.txt">JMU's email of 21 Jan</ref>, together with notes
     taken by LB</p>
   </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
   <change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change>
   <change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm04</change>
   <change>21 Jan 03 LB: first draft</change>
  </revisionDesc>
 </teiHeader>
 <text>
  <body>
   <p>The following were present: Syd Bauman (SB), David Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard (LB), Matthew
    Driscoll (MD), David Durand (DD), Tomaz Erjavec (TE), Laurent Romary (LR), Susan Schreibman
    (SS), John Unsworth (JU), Perry Willett (PW), Christian Wittern (CW). </p>
   <list type="ordered">
    <item n="1">Actions from <ref target="tcm03.html">previous meeting</ref> (15 minutes): <list>
     <item n="A">Syd was to have revised his notes of <ref target="tcm02.html">the meeting on 26
      June</ref>. Deemed to be done, or no longer relevant.</item>
     <item n="B">Lou and John to resolve the technical editor position, for SGML migration
      workgroup. Sarah Wells would be working as technical author for Chris Ruotolo and the
      Migration Workgroup. LB noted that the wider issue of support for TEI website authoring was
      still to be addressed. </item>
     <item n="C">Christian and workgroup to have drafted document on attribute usage -- Christian
      reports that this has been held up: <q>As there are still some open issues on this and other
      topics in the WG, I would like to postpone this discussion until we have a clearer picture of
      how the outcome of this question will relate to our recommendations.</q>. A date of Jan 31 was
      agreed. </item>
     <item n="D"> All of us were <q>to articulate namespace policy and review P5 contents</q> by
      this time. Not done. See further <ref target="item3">item 3, below</ref>.</item>
     <item n="E">Joint ISO-TEI activity on Feature Structures. LR and LB had been discussing this.
      The plan is to propose a revision of the current TEI chapters on feature structures and
      feature systems declarations as a new work item for ISO TC37/SC4. The work would be carried
      out within a joint TEI/ISO work group, and is summarized in two documents circulated earlier
      to the council in draft form, which are to be made available on the website shortly. <note
      type="action"><label>LB</label><date>23 Jan</date> Retag and edit draft documents on FS
      WG</note>. Council approved this work item in principle, and would review the draft work plan
      as soon as possible. The proposal has to be submitted to ISO by end February.<note
      type="action"><label>All</label> <date>14 Feb</date> Review proposal for FS WG and send
      comments to list</note> Council noted that participation in ISO workgroups had to be
      self-funding. LR was asked to provide an estimate of the likely cost to the TEI of its
      participation. <note type="action"><label>LR</label><date>31 Jan</date> provide estimated
      budget for TEI participation in proposed FS WG</note> </item>
     </list></item>
    <item n="2">Editors' <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Drafts/edw78.html">proposal for handling
     nontrivial changes to the Guidelines</ref>. Council proposed this should be put into action,
     but requested clarification as to whether it was intended to use a <soCalled>rolling
     submission</soCalled> model (whereby editors would collect proposals and act on them
     periodically) or a rapid response model (where proposals would be acted on individually). CW
     asked whether tei-tech would be preferable to tei-l as a vehicle for discussion of such
     proposals. LB and JU felt that there should be only one list. <note type="action"
     ><label>Editors</label><date>28 Feb</date>Revise EDW78 and circulate new draft for
     approval</note></item>
    <item xml:id="item3" n="3"> Review of workplan and timetable for TEI P5 (held over from last
     meeting). Council felt that it needed more information about the implications of the various
     technical choices proposed here and in Sebastian's email before the meeting. It was agreed to
     form a special task force to work on the issues and make specific technical proposals.
     Sebastian was nominated for chair; DD, LR, CW volunteered to serve. A progress report would be
     needed at the next call. <note type="action"><label>SPQR</label><date>20 Feb</date> Form new
     work group on architectural issues and report back at next conference call.</note> </item>
    <item n="4"> Status of Manuscript description work (held over from last meeting). JU reported
     that he had written to Consuelo Dutschke, but that she had been taken seriously ill. He had
     also spoken (again) to Merrilee Proffit and received email from Ambrosio Piazzoni. He suggested
     extending the deadline for a submission from the TEI MSS WG until the end of February. Council
     felt that this would not be appropriate, since the deadline had already been extended twice.
     Instead, it was agreed that the Council should constitute a new task force, jointly chaired by
     MJD and MP, charged with harmonization of the various proposals in this area as rapidly as
     possible. David Birnbaum was also volunteered to join the new group. <note type="action"
     ><label>JU</label> <date>31 Jan</date> to write to CD and AP, requesting them to submit the
     current state of their work to the new task force</note> <note type="action"
     ><label>MJD</label><date>31 Jan</date> to draft a charge for the new taskforce and circulate to
     the Council</note>. </item>
    <item n="5"> Progress on IMLS proposal. PW briefly reported that the proposal was on schedule
     for submission to IMLS by deadline of 1 Feb. Both he and JU expressed optimism about the
     outcome of the proposal. </item>
    <item n="6"> <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/lists_archive/tei-council/0381.html"
     >New workgroup on SVG and chapter on Trees/Graphs</ref> proposed by Patrick Durusau. Council
     agreed that the question of whether or not the current chapter on Trees and Graphs should be
     retained or revised was distinct from the question of how to integrate other XML schemes such
     as SVG. It was agreed to ask Patrick to constitute a task force which should review current
     work in formalization of tree and graph structures, and make a specific recommendation with
     regard to the current chapter of the Guidelines. He should solicit interest in this work on
     TEI-L; it was suggested that Chris Catton (on the SO markup wg) would be a useful contributor.
     <note type="action"><label>JU</label><date>31 Jan</date> To convey Council's view on proposed
     wg on trees and graphs to PD</note></item>
    <item n="7">Selection of chair for group to work on Core Tags and Schema. Council agreed that
     this should be a task for the group already proposed for Sebastian.</item>
    <item n="8"> Update from character encoding workgroup. CW reported that the group was drafting a
     proposal concerning a replacement for SDATA entities which it was intended to submit to W3C,
     hopefully with the support of the TEI. This would be available for comment by the end of
     January. <note type="action"><label>All</label><date>15 Feb</date>To review and comment on CE
     WG's proposals concerning SDATA when available.</note> The wg was also working on two other
     documents, one to replace the current chapter 4 of P4, and the other to define <soCalled>next
     generation WSDs</soCalled>. These drafts should be ready for submission by the end of April. No
     further meetings of the group were planned. </item>
    <item n="9"> Update from Standoff Markup Workgroup. DD reported that drafts of several documents
     were starting to be circulated on the workgroup's discussion list. A new document was planned
     on the rationale behind some of the recommendations. <note type="action"
     ><label>Editors</label><date>31 Jan</date> to make wg drafts available on website</note> </item>
    <item n="9a"> The full workgroup on SGML/XML migration was due to meet in College Park in early
     February. Chris Ruotolo would report on its progress at the next meeting.</item>
    <item n="10">Date of next conference call: 18 March, at the same time. The Council would next
     meet face to face in Oxford, May 16-17. <note type="action"><label>LB/SPQR</label><date>31
     Jan</date> check arrangements for Oxford meeting</note> </item>
    <item n="11">Any Other Business. LB said that he was chairing the Programme Committee for this
     year's Digital Resources in the Humanities Conference, to be held at the University of
     Gloucestershire's Cheltenham campus 31 Aug to 3 Sept, and that TEI submissions would be very
     welcome.</item>
   </list>
  </body>
 </text>
</TEI>
