<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2004-05"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2004-05" from="2004-05-13" to="2004-05-15">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Gent</placeName>, <date>13â€“15 May 2004</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM011</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>This is the source.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm11</change><change>Lou:  corrected typos; fixed lacunae.</change><change>Syd Bauman:  Cleaned up notes into first draft.</change><change>Syd Bauman:  Started by taking notes at Council meeting.</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <front>
      <div type="glossary">
        <list type="simple">
          <head>Initials Used for People</head>
          <item> <label>SB</label> <gloss>Syd Bauman</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <label>AB</label> <gloss>Alejandro Bia</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <label>DB</label> <gloss>David Birnbaum</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <label>LB</label> <gloss>Lou Burnard</gloss>      </item>
          <item> <label>MD</label> <gloss>Matthew Driscoll</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <label>DD</label> <gloss>David Durand</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <label>JF</label> <gloss>Julia Flanders</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <label>SR</label> <gloss>Sebastian Rahtz</gloss>      </item>
	  <item> <label>LR</label> <gloss>Laurent Romary</gloss>    </item>
	  <item> <label>CR</label> <gloss>Christine Ruotolo</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <label>SS</label> <gloss>Susan Schreibman</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <label>NS</label> <gloss>Natasha Smith</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <label>JU</label> <gloss>John Unsworth</gloss>     </item>
          <item> <label>EV</label> <gloss>Edward Vanhoutte</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <label>PW</label> <gloss>Perry Willett</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <label>CW</label> <gloss>Christian Wittern</gloss>       </item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div>
	<p>All times are local; i.e. CEST (Central European Summer
	  Time), or +02.</p>
	<p>Meeting started at 05-13 ~14:45 with SB, AB, DB, LB, MD, JF,
	  SR, LR, SS, NS, EV, PW, and CW. Day 1 ended at 18:10. Resumed on
	  day 2 (05-14) at ~09:14 with same people plus DD (who had
	  flight problems and thus missed day 1), ending at 18:05.</p>
	<p>Council extends warm gratitude to the <ref target="http://www.kantl.be/"><name xml:lang="NL" type="org">Koninklijke Academie voor Nederlandse Taal-
	      en Letterkunde</name></ref> not only for hosting our
	  meeting in inspiring surroundings, but also for its
	  generosity in providing refreshments &amp; lunch.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
	<head>Items from Previous Meeting</head>
	<p>Council reviewed the action items from the conference call of 2004-03-29. (See the
	<ref target="./tcm10.html">notes from that call</ref>.)</p>
	<list type="simple">
	  <item>CW has contacted Sanskritters; current state of their
	    work to be reviewed at this meeting.</item>
	  <item>SB reports that MB has sent him mail, needs to follow up.</item>
	  <item>DD not present.</item>
	  <item>LB reports ODD for MS has been done; review of current
	  version is on agenda for this meeting.</item>
	  <item>SR reports that customization tests have been done but
	    not promulgated.</item>
	  <item>DB reports that he discussed collation sequences with
	    JF face-to-face.</item>
	  <item>JF reports proposed charge has been written,
	    circulated, and is on the agenda for this meeting.</item>
	</list>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>MI</head>
	<p>Discussed e-mail from CR <!--2004-05-10T17:49-04 -->to those who
	  are on both the Council and the Migration Task Force
	  (SB,AB,LB,SS,NS). Portions of this mail are reproduced
	  <ref target="mail-from-CR">below</ref>. As well as the
	points made there, it was noted that many case studies (<ref target="../Activities/MI/miw06.html">MI W 06</ref>) still have
	outstanding comments
	  from the copy editor, and Tobias Rischer's checklist needs
	further work.</p>
	<p>Council learned indirectly from Daniel Pitti that the grant period
	  ended on 2004-04-30. Thus the final report is due to the NEH on
	  2004-07-30; this report will consist of a description of
	  work completed and a financial report.</p>
	<p>SS &amp; NS propose (to Council &amp; CR) that they (with
	  AB &amp; CR) take charge of contacting the authors of the
	  various case studies and reminding them to finish up. They
	  will all be at ALLC, so would wrap-up there.</p>
	<p>It was pointed out that the section on P5 is (currently)
	  time-dependant, and probably shouldn't be in what is
	  hopefully a static document. After very brief discussion it
	  was agreed that these documents do need to be static, as
	  there is no further funding to maintain them. Furthermore,
	  tools pointed to by these documents need to be pointed to
	  statically, i.e. on MI web sub-site.</p>
	<p>There was some discussion of moving the reports (or
	  copying them) into somewhere other than /Activities, but no
	  resolution was reached.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>Physical Bibliography (PB) Workgroup</head>
	<p>Council learned that JF and DB had met in Providence and
	had concluded that the areas of overlap between MS and the
	proposed PB group were most significant in the <gi>physDesc</gi> and inline elements. They had agreed that it
	made most sense for MS group to continue to work on
	<gi>physDesc</gi> but to communicate first to avoid
	divergence; meanwhile the PB group would draw up a draft
	of inline elements to be discussed in consultation with MS
	taskforce.</p>
	<p>Council learned that the PB group hopes that its output
	  could be included in P5, whence the aggressive <ref target="../Activities/PB/pba01.html">work-plan</ref>
	  proposed. The group has purposefully assigned itself a very
	  limited scope, but plans to identify issues they may wish to
	  address later.</p>
	<p>After some discussion, Council suggests that, because the
	  changes they are likely to suggest are quite limited, that
	  they de-couple their time-line from that of P5, and instead
	  plan to submit one or more specific <soCalled>proposals for  change</soCalled>.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>P5</head>
	<p>LB presented the current state of P5 (reviewing <ref target="../Drafts/edw81.html">edw81</ref>). Reviewed set of <q>for checking</q> chapters.<list type="simple">
	    <item>Council considered, without definitive resolution,
	      the idea of moving HD (ch. 5, <gi>teiHeader</gi>) to
	      <soCalled>minor surgery</soCalled>. At least two Council
	      members (LR &amp; PW) anticipate submitting suggestions
	      for HD.</item>
	    <item>Council noted that PH (ch. 18, primary sources) will
	      likely need minor surgery with input from the PB group.</item>
	    <item>It was proposed, without definite resolution, to
	      move ND (ch. 20, names &amp; dates) to the
	      <soCalled>minor surgery</soCalled> category for the
	      addition of prosopographic tagging as discussed recently
	      on TEI-L.</item>
	    <item>Council agreed that the discussion of the
	      relationship between <gi>teiHeader</gi> and other
	      standards should be excised from IH (ch. 24, independent
	      header) and moved to HD before IH is deleted.</item>
	    <item>Council approved LR as the surgeon for TE
	      (ch. 13, terminological databases).</item>
	    <item>It was recommended that FT (ch. 22, tables,
	      formulae, and graphics) be slated for major surgery, and
	      that the SIG on presentation be the surgeon.</item>
	  </list>
	</p>
	<p>It was suggested that <emph rend="italic">somewhere</emph>,
	  if not in the <title>Guidelines</title>, the TEI-C needs to
	  address issues of presentation. A <q>now what?</q> web page was
	  suggested: the SIG on Presentation might be requested to
	make a first stab at this.</p>
	<p>MD says Menota group has several changes (mostly to PH) to
	  suggest. Discussion of call for proposals ensued.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>SourceForge</head>
	<p>SR demonstrated a bit of SourceForge. Council considered the
	  question which of the
	  various SourceForge features we want to use.</p>
	<p>Council agreed to concept of using SourceForge artifacts
	  for bug tracking, feature requests, etc. Discussion of what
	  artifact types there should be deferred for further experimentation.</p>
	<p>Council considered the question of whether the ODD source
	  of P5 should be moved to the SourceForge CVS tree
	  immediately, later on in the P5 development process, or
	  after P5 has been released. After much discussion, Council
	  recommends that after each chapter is
	  <soCalled>checked</soCalled> (per edw81), it be put up on
	  SourceForge.</p>
	<p>SR asked for input from the Council on what, if anything,
	  we wanted on the TEI Knoppix CD.</p>
	<div>
	  <head>Licensing</head>
	  <p>The Board representative (SR) informed us that the Board
	    has voted to use GPL for the Guidelines, and asks Council
	    to either accept, recommend to the Board that they reverse
	    their decision, or tell the editors to separate the
	    section on conformance out of Guidelines so it won't be
	    under GPL. Council agreed to the last: to recommend to the
	    Board that CF be separated from the Guidelines.</p>
	  <p>Noting that trademarking the <mentioned>Text Encoding
	      Initiative</mentioned> name (and logo, if we had one) is
	    even more important in the face of copylefting the
	    Guidelines, Council recommended that the Board trademark
	    at least the name immediately.<note type="action">
	      <label>JF</label>
	      Take necessary actions with the Board to get our
		name trademarked
	      <date>ASAR</date>
	    </note> It was noted that asking JU about how to do so
	    and what has been done so far would be a good first
	    step.</p>
	</div>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>osx on Windows</head>
	<p>LB reports that the developer of the extensions that allow
	  osx to build on Windows has received no  response from
	  OpenJade (the project that maintains OpenSP, of which osx is
	  a part). Council agreed that whether or not an
	  <soCalled>official</soCalled> version makes it through the
	  OpenJade project, it should go on the MI/Tools page.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>Sanskrit</head>
	<p>CW briefly summarized a report from John Smith (<ref target="../Activities/CE/cew10.pdf"/>)</p>
	<p>In the ensuing discussion it was pointed out that the
	  problem raised and addressed in the report is a general
	  linguistic problem, although  particularly
	  acute in Sanskrit. A  morphosyntactic group of TC37 SC4 is also
	  working on this and related problems. It was
	  pointed out that the general problem is similar to that
	  which is encoded by the mirror tags <gi>orig</gi> and
	  <gi>reg</gi>: in general, one of the forms could not be
	  automatically generated from the other, and therefore there
	  was a need to encode both explicitly.</p>
	<p>LB says that he expects P5 to suggest use of
	  <gi>choice</gi> for this kind of problem, and in fact to use
	  a Sandhi example.</p>
<!--	<p>It was pointed out that allowing lots of other elements into
	  content of <gi>w</gi> then using two <gi>w</gi>s inside a
	  single <gi>w</gi> would solve their problem.</p>-->
	<p>Council thoughts are as follows.
	  <list type="simple">
	    <item>The problem is clearly stated and not restricted to
	    Sanskrit: we should therefore seek a general solution</item>
	    <item>The solution proposed uses mixed content in a way
	    which seems inappropriate</item>
	    <item>Sanskrit group should be made aware of related
	    TC37/SC4 activities</item>
	    <item>Our mechanisms (<gi>choice</gi>) are very general,
	      and we'd appreciate their input in refining our
	      documentation of it (as
	      soon as we have some) </item>
	  </list>
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>SB</label>
	    attempt to enlist the assistance of those on TEI-L
	      most interested in <gi>choice</gi> to write a working
	      paper on the issues surrounding use of it and of
	      previous attribute mechanism.
	    <date>2004-05-27</date>
	  </note>
	</p>
      </div>
      <!-- end day 1, begin day 2 -->
      <div>
	<head>TD</head>
	<p>SR gave the Council a presentation on the current status of
	the ODD system. After the presentation the question of whether or not
	  ODD format should rely more heavily on RelaxNG, in
	  particular by using <gi>rng:pattern</gi> instead of
	  <gi>classSpec</gi>, was raised.</p>
	<p>After much discussion Council concluded by asking that the
	  META work-group further discuss the issue.</p>
	<p>It was noted
	  that the proposed new modification system recommended  the user
	  to express modifications in ODD language rather than in
	  either DTD or Schema. It was an open question as to whether
	  the facility to plug in predefined sets of modifications
	  written in DTD language would be retained. </p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>I18N</head>
	<p>SR presented the mechanism developed by META group in and
	  after Paris meeting, using an additional ODD language
	  <soCalled>patch</soCalled> which is applied as a
	  customization when creating a schema.</p>
	<p>A single dictionary file (teinames.xml) is used to map names. A
	  style-sheet uses this to  transform  the ODDs themselves,
	  inserting <gi>altIdent</gi> elements as necessary. A
	  different style-sheet can translate instances; theoretically
	  a third could translate (XML syntax) schemas. In discussion,
	  it was noted that this dictionary-based approach did not
	  extend to providing translations of the element-specific
	  text such as the <gi>gloss</gi> or <gi>desc</gi> sub-elements.</p>
	<p>This was felt to restrict the usefulness of the current system
	  for the needs of localizers; some of these concerns might be addressed by a
	  more conventional terminological structure.<note type="action">
	    <label>LR (as TE surgeon)</label>
	    look at current implementation and use it as a test
	      case for his revision of the TE module. </note>
	  </p>
	<p>Some discussion of how translations would actually take
	  place occurred, but no definitive conclusions reached.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>CE</head>
	<p>CW reports CE WG had now produced draft replacements for
	two chapters of P5: <title>Languages and character
	sets</title> (CH) and. <title>Representation of non-standard
	characters and glyphs</title> (WD). The former now included a new
	  section on lang identification, which might need some more work.</p>
	<p>On the issue of <att>xml:lang</att>, LB requested a
	  summary of counter arguments. CW raised issue of reliance on
	  external standards.</p>
	<p>It was suggested that we consider using
	  <att>ident</att> (the ID half of the string match
	  mechanism TD uses) instead of <att>n</att> on
	  <gi>lang</gi> as the mechanism CE uses to associate a
	  <gi>xml:lang</gi> value with a <gi>language</gi> element.</p>
	<p>In the ensuing discussion it was noted that the association
	  of the language attribute (be it <att>lang</att> or <att>xml:lang</att>) with a <gi>language</gi>
	  element in the <gi>teiHeader</gi> is optional.</p>
	<p>Turning to discussion of WD, council noted that this chapter was
	  substantially updated from last year. CW presented the major
	  mechanism (using the <gi>g</gi> element).</p>
	<p>The CE WG feels its work is done. Council congratulates them.</p>
	<p>LR brings up issue of object language vs. working language.
	  SB suggests that <att>ana</att> is the
	  appropriate mechanism to encode object language. LB suggests
	  that MS's new <gi>textLang</gi> is.</p>
	<p>
	</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>FS</head>
	<p>LR reported  on the progress of
	  the joint TEI-ISO FS work-group. At the Nancy meeting
	  (minutes may be found <ref target="../Activities/FS/fsm01.html">here</ref>), the group
	  (following ISO procedures) addressed comments that have been
	  received so far. Currently the group has two goals:
	  <list type="simple">
	    <item>produce at least a portion of document for P5</item>
	    <item>have FS (not FD) finalized by August</item>
	  </list></p>
	<p>Some (but not all) members of the work-group will be in
	  Lisbon (at <ref target="http://www.lrec-conf.org/lrec2004/index.php">LREC</ref>), 
	  and they plan to discuss and dispose of the remaining small,
	  mostly editorial, issues, and also the larger issue of
	  re-entrancy.</p>
	<p>In August there will be a 1.5 day meeting: 1 half day on
	  FS, and 2 half days on FSD. The goal for FSD will be
	  the same as with FS: a combined TEI &amp; ISO standard.</p>
	<p>LB explains that the ISO standard format is not the same as
	  TEI chapter format. Notes that a fair amount of work (on the
	  ISO side) is left to perform the needed integration. There
	  will, in the end, still need to be some minor differences
	  (e.g., possibly references to the other; ISO version will
	  want RelaxNG code as an appendix, etc.)</p>
	<p>Question for Council is whether the break with P4
	  compatibility is OK. Quite a large portion of the world's
	  users of FS, and several implementors were on the WG, all
	  think P5 version should go on without backward
	  compatibility. Council has no objection to non-backward
	  compatibility.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>MS</head>
	<p>MD presented the current <ref target="../Activities/MS/FASC-ms.pdf">MS fascicule</ref>,
	  which represents not only the changes the task force
	  developed at their meeting (of which <ref target="../Activities/MS/msm01.html">minutes</ref> are
	  available) expressed in the new ODD format, but also
	  includes some new changes. One of these changes was the
	  subject of significant discussion: since the meeting, the
	  <gi>msLooseDesc</gi> element had been dropped, and the
	  <gi>p</gi> element is now permitted to intermingle at the
	  top level as children of <gi>msDescription</gi>.</p>
	<p>It was pointed out that this content model does not allow
	  for fully structured records. Council did not resolve the
	  details of this issue but rather concluded that the TF
	  should do so as it prepares the proposed chapter for P5.</p>
	<p>The chapter currently has a lot of material and topics that are addressed by other
	  modules, and will soon need to be moved. 	  <note type="action">
	    <label>editors</label>
	    determine what parts, if any, of MS need to be in
	      CO
</note></p>
	<p>Council learned that the task force had only considered elements to an
	  arbitrary depth in the hierarchy (due to lack of time &amp;
	  area-specific expertise), and that further down the
	  hierarchy informal prose (in <gi>p</gi> elements) is
	  permitted. The task force feels that there is a need to extend the
	  specificity of specialized elements, i.e., to <q>take the
	    hierarchy further down</q>. However, a chapter could be
	delivered for P5 without doing so first.</p>
	<p>On the question of rechartering the group as a work-group
	(as opposed to a task force) Council agreed that the task force should finish up
	  proposed chapter for P5 and then write a charge to be reconstituted as a
	  WG for hammering out the lower level elements.
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>MD</label>
	    Write examples
	    <date>2004-06-04</date>
	  </note>
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>MD</label>
	    Write new charge for MS WG
	    <date>2004-07-15</date>
	  </note>
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>MS TF</label>
	    Finish up MS chapter
	    <date>2004-07-15</date>
	  </note>
	</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>SO</head>
	<p>Council entertained report from DD on the progress of SO.
	In particular, on the immediate goal set forth in Council's
	previous conference 
	  call to have decisions noted and written down so that P5
	  could proceed. Summary of suggestions:<list type="simple">
	    <item>ID/IDREF no longer in Guidelines, replaced by
	      URIs.</item>
	    <item>drop entire extended pointer mechanism</item>
	    <item>use XPointer scheme framework</item>
	    <item>use <att>xml:id</att> instead of
	      <att>id</att></item>
	    <item>Guidelines should recommend practice of using
	      relative URIs, especially for large sets of files</item>
	    <item>drop <gi>xptr</gi> and <gi>xref</gi></item>
	    <item>the two pointer schemes (bare name and element())
	      are missing a few methods of locating text that we
	      dearly want (strings, ranges, regexps). In particular
	      xpath(), xpath-2(), range(), string-point(),
	      regexp().</item>
	    <item>the W3C XPointer extension mechanism is very
	      cumbersome, so it is recommended we create (register?)
	      our own MIME type (xml/TEI), since the fragment
	      identifier part of a URI is, according to IETF,
	      interpreted based on the MIME-type</item>
	    <item>For IDREFS (where the problem is that the attribute
	      value would need to hold multiple URIs) the suggestion
	      is to wrap each URI in curly braces</item> <!-- question
	    of whether we should include
	non-implemented methods -->
	  </list>
	</p>
	<p>The question arose, with significant discussion, of whether
	  or not we should include in the Guidelines any methods that
	  have not yet been implemented. </p>
	<p>The work group is soliciting input from Council on the
	  following issues, which are listed here along with Council's
	  response.<list type="simple">
	    <item><label>use <att>xml:id</att></label>
	      <gloss>Council approved</gloss></item>
	    <item><label>drop ID/IDREF, but with separate customization
		module to use it</label> Council discussed the
	  question, and charged the work group to examine the issues,
	  in particular those of IDREFS, more closely. Council wants
	  the options for handling IDREFS (embedded pointing
	      sub-elements or any kind of multiple pointers
	      in single attribute value, in which case Council prefers
	  space as a separator.</item>
	    <item><label>Renaming <att>target</att> to
		<att>href</att></label> Also
	  referred back to WG</item>
	    <item><label>Establishing a TEI MIME type</label>
	      Council approves, instructs Board to register it
	  <note type="action">
		  <label>JF</label>
		  register the MIME type
		</note></item>
	    <item><label>pointer extensions of our own (if so, which ones)</label>
	      Council endorses keeping xpath1(), xpath2(),
	      string-point(), and range(), but dropping
	      regexp()</item>
	  </list>
	</p>
	<p>With respect to the IDREFS problem, concern was expressed that some processors in the
	  world will process IDREFS, but none will process the
	  proposed {} separated
	  list of URIs solution.</p>
	<p>Council identified three possible paths to follow:<list type="simple">
	    <item>keep IDREFS</item>
	    <item>use child elements</item>
	    <item>separate URIs in a single attribute value</item>
	  </list> Although concern was expressed about using a blank
	  to separate the multiple URIs in the third method, because escaping blanks in URIs is
	  already an area where users typically make a lot of
	  errors.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>Publication of P5</head>
	<p>SR suggests continuous releases like OSS, rather than waiting.</p>
	<p>CW voices preference that we measure P5 by milestones of
	  accomplishment rather than by particular calendar
	  dates.</p>
	<p>The soon to be publicized call for participation, which
	  could point out that now is the time for making suggestions
	  for major changes, will have a deadline of 1 Sept for getting
	  suggestions reviewed for inclusion in the Members' Meeting
	  presentation. Intention is to have a coherent set of ODDs on
	  SourceForge by the end of June. Editors to make release
	  snapshots at their own judgment.</p>
	<p>We hope to issue a call for copy editing by the time of the Members'
	Meeting.</p>
	<p>LB suggests that we revisit mapping of modules to chapters,
	  in particular CO should be broken up. The P5 update page
	  needs to be updated before the call for suggestions, which
	is going out in 2 weeks, is made.
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>JF</label>
	    Write draft updates to P5 update page
	    <date>2004-05-27</date>
	  </note>
	</p>
	<p>
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>LB,SR,CW,SB</label>
	    Produce a project plan inventory
	    <date>2004-06-01</date>
	  </note>
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>LB,SR,CW,SB</label>
	    Produce complete project plan
	    <date>2004-07-01</date>
	  </note>
	</p>
      </div>
      <div>
	<head>Budget</head>
	<p>The issue of budget for WGs was briefly discussed. The possibility of
	  a prosopography WG raised, but consensus was against.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
	<head>Next meeting</head>
	<p>Next conference call scheduled for <date>Fri 02 Jul 04 at 13:00 UTC</date>.</p>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="mail-from-CR" type="appendix">
	<head>e-mail from CR discussed at meeting</head>
	<p>The following is an excerpt from e-mail which was
	  distributed (in print form) at the meeting for
	  discussion.</p>
	<eg>From: Christine Ruotolo &lt;username@machine.in.virginia.edu&gt;
Subject: TEI Migration TF update for Council meeting
Date: Mon, 10 May 2004 17:49:11 -0400 (EDT)

...

* With the exception of a handful of accidentals and one substantive
change still to be incorporated, the primary reports (MIW02 and MIW03) are
complete.  (The change has to do with substituting the hypothetical "long
s" SDATA example with a "qthorn" example from WWP -- Syd will remember
this exchange from the list -- and I will post it along with the errata to
TEI-MIGR.)

* The tools page currently consists of one tool -- osx -- and even that
information needs to updated in light of the build for Windows that Lou
recently announced.  Someone needs to gather up the tools mentioned in the
reports and the case studies and arrange them with accompanying blurbs
into a new tools page.  I believe I agreed to do this a while back and
have shamefully dropped the ball; I am now underway with this task and
hope to finish up very soon.

* A run through the linkbot reveals a number of broken links throughout
the MI section of the TEI website.  In addition to pointers from the case
studies to the currently non-existent tools page (with URLs of the type
"idunno://where/we/will/put/this") there are a few other missing items
(tei-emacs bits off the main TEI software page, the early TEILite test
suite from Tobias) as well as some glitchy little things like broken
anchors and links to phantom CSS stylesheets.  Again, I will
synthesize and post to TEI-MIGR, although it might take a bit longer to
sort out.

So to sum up: written documentation complete, website bits and pieces
still to be assembled and organized.  I'd like to have that assembling and
organizing done by May 26, which is when Tomaz presents his paper on the
workgroup activities to LREC. (I will be giving a similar poster session
at ALLC/ACH a few weeks later.)

Perhaps the Council could discuss what other dissemination strategies, if
any, are necessary.  Assuming that the reports will be sent to NEH and
announced on TEI-L, what else do we need to do?  Does the Council envision
the need for any future migration-related activities?

I'm sorry there hasn't been much progress of late, but I hope this has
been a useful assessment of current status.  I can be reached at any time
via email or phone (aaa.xxx.nnnn) if you need more info from me.  Have a
great meeting, and I hope to see you all in Sweden next month.

Chris
</eg>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text></TEI>