<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2004-11"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2004-11" when="2004-11-29">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>29 November 2004</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM014</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>This is the source.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm14</change><change when="2004-11-29">Syd Bauman:  Fixed notes up to a proper XML document; 1st
          draft.</change><change when="2004-11-29">Syd Bauman:  Started by taking notes during call.</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <front>
      <div type="glossary">
        <list type="simple">
          <head>Initials Used for People</head>
          <item> <term>SB</term> <gloss>Syd Bauman</gloss>        </item>
          <item> <term>AB</term> <gloss>Alejandro Bia</gloss>     </item>
          <item> <term>DB</term> <gloss>David Birnbaum</gloss>    </item>
          <item> <term>LB</term> <gloss>Lou Burnard</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>JC</term> <gloss>James Cummings</gloss>    </item>
          <item> <term>MD</term> <gloss>Matthew Driscoll</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <term>DD</term> <gloss>David Durand</gloss>      </item>
          <item> <term>JF</term> <gloss>Julia Flanders</gloss>    </item>
          <item> <term>SR</term> <gloss>Sebastian Rahtz</gloss>   </item>
          <item> <term>LR</term> <gloss>Laurent Romary</gloss>    </item>
          <item> <term>SS</term> <gloss>Susan Schreibman</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <term>NS</term> <gloss>Natasha Smith</gloss>     </item>
          <item> <term>PT</term> <gloss>Paul Tremblay</gloss>     </item>
          <item> <term>EV</term> <gloss>Edward Vanhoutte</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <term>JW</term> <gloss>John Walsh</gloss>        </item>
          <item> <term>PW</term> <gloss>Perry Willett</gloss>     </item>
          <item> <term>CW</term> <gloss>Christian Wittern</gloss> </item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>All times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>Present were SB, DB, LB, JC, MD, DD, JF, SR, SS, NS, JW,
          PW, and CW. Not present were AB, LR, and EV.</p>
        <p>Call commendced at 13:00.</p>
        <!-- p>Meeting started at 13:00 with JC, NS, JF, SB, LB, DD, DB,
        JW; PW &amp; SR joined at 14:02; MD at 14:06. Not present
        were AB, LR, EV.</p -->
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
        <head>Review of the <ref target="./tcm13.html">minutes from the call</ref></head>
        <list>
          <item><label>Revision of content model for
              <gi>choice</gi></label> LB reported that some progress has
            been made, and he thinks the action completed.</item>
          <item><label>Post updated version of SO W 09 to
              Council</label> Done.</item>
          <item><label>Check in updated version of SA</label> SB
            reports that this action was deliberately deferred due to
            <list>
              <item>expressions of concern that TEI should not be
                moving to URI References, and</item>
              <item>the need to have the style-sheets updated
                simultaneously or before changing P5 source</item>
            </list>
          </item>
          <item><label>Finalize draft of MS</label> MD reports that
            the draft has been completed, but has not been announced
            anywhere. It was noted that there has already been some
            feedback, as it was announced as part of the Members'
            Meeting <ref target="../Activities/SIG/Manuscript/mssigr02.html">MS SIG
              report</ref>. Council agreed that once the draft was
            publicized, comments on it should receive rapid attention
            from the MS taskforce, and urged MD to announce draft far
            and wide immediately.</item>
          <item><label>propose a method of managing SF feature
              requests so as to facilitate gathering of input from
              Council members</label> SB reported that LB has gone
            through artifacts and assigned priority. LB expressed
            doubt as to whether this was actually a good idea or not;
            suggesting that Council members should feel free to look
            at and comment on any items in which they were personally
            interested. It was suggested that all Council members
            should sign up for Sourceforge user accounts, such that
            they could receive notification of updates to feature
            requests. SB thought that after signing up, Council
            members may have to sign up for notifications on an
            artifact-by-artifact basis.</item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>MM Baltimore report</head>
        <p>LB reported that a general SIGs report, some individual
          SIGs, and some talks are now <ref target="https://tei-c.org/Vault/MembersMeetings/2004-info/">available on the
            web</ref>; SS believes the other SIGs should be reporting
          soon. LB said the meeting was well attended, and lots of
          good discussions were had over lunches &amp; in hallways,
          etc.</p>
        <p>LB stated that prior to the Members' Meeting there had been
          an expression of concern over the conversion of legacy data
          to P5, and that in response to this he and SR had created a
          <soCalled>P4 compatibility mode</soCalled> on the flight
          over, which was presented to membership. The membership
          present had expressed an overall feeling of <q>why would I
            want one of those?</q>. There seemed to be general
          agreement that we should keep <soCalled>P4 compatibility
            mode</soCalled> in the background, and bring it out if and
          when there is a call for it.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Sanskrit</head>
        <p>LB thinks the Sanskritters have a desire to use TEI for
          general interchange, but also want detailed validation.
          After some discussion, there seemed to be agreement that
          there are three ways to achieve this:
          <list>
            <item>Schematron (either included as part of P5 or used
              separately)</item>
            <item>raw schema (which would require significant changes
              to ODD)</item>
            <item>syntactic sugar</item>
          </list> and that it is a very general problem (relating to
          those who wish to constrain subsections to exist only inside
          sections, e.g.) The current suggestion is to agree to their
          recommendations that <gi>seg</gi> be used, with some
          validation mechanism to follow. <note type="action"><label>CW</label> draft a reply to
            Sanskritters and post it to council</note> This problem,
          with a Sanskrit example, can show up in the Guidelines as an
          example of how to use <gi>seg</gi> in <gi>choice</gi>.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Meetings</head>
        <p>We'd like to hold a face to face meeting in late April or
          early May. The following expressed the possibility of
          hosting:
          <list>
            <item>MD, Copenhagen</item>
            <item>JC, Oxford</item>
            <item>SS, Maryland</item>
          </list> It was pointed out that cost will be a large concern
          with this meeting.<note type="action"><label>MD, JC,
              SS</label> each to post a brief summary to the council
            list of the anticipated cost of hosting a meeting at his
            her locale, in particular of lodging</note></p>
        <p>With the upcoming departure of DD, the Council needs a new
          host for conference calls. JW said he could host, using the
          same mechanism PW has used in the past. This turns out to be
          expensive for Europeans, but CW feels it is still probably
          less expensive overall, and so graciously accepts JW's
          offer.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Work-groups</head>
        <p>A brief report from PB has been sent, but not in time for
          the call. No change in FS</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>xml colon thing</head>
        <p>Yes, Council agreed on use of <att>xml:id</att> (declared as W3C suggests,
          we think <code>ID</code>) and <att>xml:lang</att> (declared where possible
          as <ident type="datatype">xsd:language</ident>, 
          using the
          <soCalled>Ghent improved Nancy Hack</soCalled>, i.e. an
          <att>ident</att> on
          <gi>language</gi>).</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>SO W 09</head>
        <p>SR raised a concern over the inconsistency of the <att>target</att>
          attribute. It was pointed out that this inconsistency is
          just a duplication of what is currently in P4, where all
          <att>targets</att> attributes are
          <code>IDREFS</code>, but not all <att>target</att> attributes are
          <code>IDREF</code>, some are <code>IDREFS</code>. SB thought there
          was a reason for some, if not all, of these apparent
          discrepancies, but could not recall them. Council agreed
          that this should be looked into with an eye to making names
          consistent.</p>
        <p>Council agreed on the substantive issues brought up by
          <ref target="../Activities/SO/sow09.html">SO W 09</ref>, with
          the exception of the details of the new xpointer schemes,
          concerning which discussion was deferred.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>style-sheets</head>
        <p>Council raised a concern that SR's stylesheets are
          mistakenly viewed by TEI community as intended to be
          exemplary. JF suggested making the domain space of TEI
          stylesheets larger, to provide more examples, perhaps
          through a contest or call for submissions from the TEI
          community. JW agrees. <note type="action"><label>JF</label><date>2004-12-15</date>
            send to council list a proposal for call or contest for
            getting additional style-sheets for TEI</note> No one was
          entirely sure, but SB thought it might be the case that the
          current release of SR's style-sheets are on Sourceforge, and
          that those on the TEI site are out of date. <note type="action"><label>SR</label> Ensure that the version of
            style-sheets available from the TEI site is the current
            release (even if that means that what is on the TEI site
            is no more than a pointer to the download from
            Sourceforge)</note></p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head><gi>biblItem</gi></head>
        <p>It was suggested that a small group look at the broader
          view around this issue, and recommend the best approach in
          general. Specifically to consider whether some other
          standard is sufficient, and if not, to examine the current
          proposal and perhaps recommend changes. <note type="action"><label>PW</label> contact PT to research
            broader problem of how P5 should encode
            bibliographies</note>.</p>
        <p>It was noted that we do not know who, other than PT,
          participated in the creation of the current proposal.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p><note type="action"><label>all</label> read artifacts on
            TEI Sourceforge <ref target="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=644065&amp;group_id=106328&amp;func=browse">feature 
              requests</ref> tracker and post comments, even if
            comment is just <q>I agree</q>.</note></p>
        <p>Next conference call scheduled for <date when="2005-01-31T13:00:00Z">Mon 31 Jan at 13:00 UTC</date>.</p>
        <p>Call ended at 14:37</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text></TEI>