<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2004-07"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2004-07" when="2004-07-02">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>2 July 2004</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM012</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>SB's write up modified by LB's notes.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm12</change><change>Lou:  Pruned Syd's
      prose and generally tidied up</change><change when="2004-07-03">Syd Bauman:  Changed from my meeting-minutes DTD to TEI Lite. Added
          link for new choice mailing list. Moved non-agenda items to
          other section.</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
<!--    <front>
      <div>
        <head>Preliminaries</head>
        <list type="simple">
          <head>Initials Used for People</head>
          <item> <term>SB</term> <gloss>Syd Bauman</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>AB</term> <gloss>Alejandro Bia</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>DB</term> <gloss>David Birnbaum</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>LB</term> <gloss>Lou Burnard</gloss>      </item>
          <item> <term>TC</term> <gloss>Terry Catapano</gloss>   </item>
          <item> <term>MD</term> <gloss>Matthew Driscoll</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>DD</term> <gloss>David Durand</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <term>JF</term> <gloss>Julia Flanders</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>AH</term> <gloss>Anne Mette Hansen</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <term>KL</term> <gloss>Kiyong Lee</gloss>      </item>
          <item> <term>AM</term> <gloss>Arno Mittelbach</gloss>    </item>
          <item> <term>RN</term> <gloss>Richard Noble</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <term>SR</term> <gloss>Sebastian Rahtz</gloss>      </item>
          <item> <term>LR</term> <gloss>Laurent Romary</gloss>    </item>
          <item> <term>SS</term> <gloss>Susan Schreibman</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>JS</term> <gloss>John Smith</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>NS</term> <gloss>Natasha Smith</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>JU</term> <gloss>John Unsworth</gloss>     </item>
          <item> <term>EV</term> <gloss>Edward Vanhoutte</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>PW</term> <gloss>Perry Willett</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>CW</term> <gloss>Christian Wittern</gloss>       </item>
        </list>
        <p>Times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>Council wishes to express its gratitude to Ingenta, Inc.
          for sponsoring the conference call, and to David Durand for
          being the <soCalled>local organizer</soCalled>, despite
          being in Greece at the time.</p>
      </div>
    </front>-->
    <body>

        <p>The following were present during the call which started at
        13:02 UTC: Syd Bauman (SB), David birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard
        (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD), David Durand (DD), Julia Flanders
        (JF), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (LR); Susan
        Schreibman (SS); John Smith (JS; for first item only), Natasha
        Smith (NS), Edward Vanhoute (EV); Perry Willett (PW);
        Christian Wittern (CW).
      </p>
<p>Alejandro Bia  was unable to join the call, being in transit.</p>

<list type="ordered">
<item>John Smith presented a working paper from the Sanskrit Task
Force (<ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/CE/cew11.pdf"/>). Its goal was to find
an acceptable compromise between making an overly general
recommendation and one that was too specific to a particular language
or domain. He noted a minor error in the working paper (in examples [c]
and [d], the type attribute with values <code>wordgroup</code> or
<code>compound</code> 
should be supplied on the
<gi>sequence</gi> element, not on its children). LB asked in what
respect the existing general mechanisms for segmentation and analysis
(in chapters SA and AI of the Guidelines) were inadequate to the
problem in hand, and agreed to demonstrate how they might be used for
the cited examples.  <note type="action"> <label>LB</label> e-mail one
of Sanskrit examples re-encoded with &lt;seg&gt; and &lt;ana&gt;.<date>1 aug
04</date></note> 
Noting that the Taskforce was uneasy with the implied
semantics of the choice tag (since the intent in this case was to mark
a segmentation plus an interpretation, rather than to present two
alternative ways of doing the same thing), LB suggested it might be
useful for JS to join the recently-set-up TEI-choice list. <note type="action"> <label>LB</label> add JS to TEI-choice discussion list
<date>7 jul 04</date>          </note>
LB also asked whether Unicode tokenization was not an adequate way of
handling word-segmentation for these languages; CW and JS explained
that it was not, because the same character might be shared between
two words in a compound. LR noted that ISO TC37/SC4 (<ref target="http://www.sc37sc4.org"/>) had an active workgroup on
morpho-syntactic annotation, which had produced a detailed working
paper of relevance to the discussion <note type="action"><label>LR</label> circulate reference to TC37/SC4
workgroup on paper on this issue to council list
<date>7 jul 04</date>          </note>
</item>
<item n="2">Actions from the <ref target="tcm10.html">previous
      meeting</ref> were reviewed: 
        <list type="simple">
          <item>JF reported that the likely cost of trademarking the TEI in the US
	  would be around $700: the Boardhad the matter in hand.</item>
          <item>The call for assistance in drafting the
	  <soCalled>choice</soCalled> mechanism had been issued on
	  TEI-L in early June. Response had been very good amongst
	  members of the newly set up Digitial medievalist list; in
	  the last few days, a
	  special purpose list on source forge had been set up to work
	  on the proposal (<ref target="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum=tei-choice"/>)</item>
          <!-- call re-established with SB, LB, MD, DD, JF, NS, SR,
            LR, EV, PW, CW -->
          <item>LR reported that he would be working inter alia on
	  applicability of the TEI terminology proposals to the
	  internationalization of the Guidelines, during his
	  forthcoming visit to Oxford; Alejandro Bia would also  be in Oxford at
	  the same time.</item>
          <item>Material not intended for the MS module had been
	  removed from the current draft for the chapter, but not yet
	  added to other parts of the P5 draft: action continues.</item>
          <item>No  new written examples had been added to the MS
	  draft, but the existing ones were being revised: action
	  continues: see later agenda item.</item>
          <item>JF reported that she had asked DD for clarification of
	  theis action (registering TEI as a MIME type) and that the
	  process was now in hand: action continues. </item>
          <item>The P5 page on the website had been revised 
	  immediately after the Gent meeting: JF expressed thanks to SR.</item>
          <item>LB had drafted a second section in the working paper
	  on current state of TEI P5 (<ref target="../Drafts/edw81.html"/>) which included the beginnings
	  of the requested list of actions: however, progress on structuring
	  and prioritizing these to form a proper work plan had been
	  held up. Editors agreed that the plan should include some
	  clear milestones.  <note type="action">
              <label>editors</label>work on project plan in EDW81 <date>2004-08-01</date> </note>
          </item>
        </list>

<p>Noting the intention to remove the chapter on the Independent
Header, PW commented that members of the Libraries SIG attached considerable
importance to the material presently in that chapter about the
relationship between the TEI Header and other metadata schemes, which
should be  maintained and updated. Council noted that there was a need
for such comparative information, whether or not the independent
header module was retained as a distinct schema. It was agreed that
the editors should try to draft a discussion of related issues  which might become part of
the header chapter or a free standing document.
<note type="action">
              <label>editors</label> 
              draft document discussing relationship of TEI Header to
	      other meta standards on the basis of material already
	      available, to be handed to the TEI Libraries SIG for
	      improvement and updating. <date>1 sep 04</date>
              </note>
</p></item>
<item>DD gave a brief update on StandOff Markup WG.
        It was still planned to have a draft of a replacement for
	chapter SA by end of July. DD and SB would be working on this
	during July.
</item>
<item>LR reported that the TEI-ISO workgroup meeting planned for
	the last week of August in Paris would start work on the
	Feature System Declaration chapter. The technical work on the
	Feature Structure recommendation for P5 was essentially
	complete; LR reported that implementors reported no problems
	after the changes made in Lisbon. Some work remained to be done on the additional
	tutorial material in ISO DIS 24610, which Kiyong Lee has in hand.</item>
<item>Reporting from the Manuscript Description Taskforce, 
        MD announcd that a new draft fascicule for P5 was now
	available on the website (<ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/MS/Draft-fs.pdf"/>)
	together with a brief summary of outstanding issues (<ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/MS/msw04.txt"/>). These
	documents had not yet been reviewed by the other members of
	the taskforce, but MD was hopeful that this draft could still
	be completed by mid-July.</item>

<item>Reporting on progress from the  Metalanguage Workgroup, SR
highlighted three points:

 <list type="simple">
            <item>The <soCalled>Durand conundrum</soCalled> first
	    voiced at dinner in Gent had raised some fundamental
	    questions which had been presented to the workgroup for
	    discussion. SR continued to feel
              that the additional abstract layer provided by the ODD
	      formalism was useful.  LB would attempt to address
	      this question in a presentation at Extreme Markup this
	      year.</item>
            <item>LB had suggested that we might simplify the whole concept of
modules by letting each element and class say which module it is a
member of. In lieu of disagreement, this has now been implemented. It
has some  implications for the customization process, which are not
yet fully worked out in the TD documentation.</item>

<item>A major activity since Gent has been a complete
rewrite of Roma, the P5 schema generator (<ref target="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Roma"/>) by Arno Mittelbach: this is
rewritten in PHP5 and accesses P5 via an eXist database. This implements
language customization, creation of customized documentation, and editing of
existing customizations (plus the code is available from Sourceforge, of course).
The application will be tested by Alejandro during July; it does not
yet reflect some of our more recent ideas about customization.</item>
          </list>

        <p>LB noted that OUCS was providing the  server on which Roma
	was running on an experimental basis; eventually the TEI would
	have to consider  issues of long term funding and support for its online servers.</p>
<p>The request for feature requests on SourceForge had not met with
much response, but the mechanism was available for use. This led to
some discussion about  ways of improving involvement and awareness
of the TEI community in current development activities. It was
suggested that a regular news feed from the TEI Chair might be one way
of meeting this and JF agreed to look into doing this.
<note type="action">
<label>JF</label>
to consider drafting of regular news items for distribution to membership, readership
of TEI-L, posting as news feed to TEI website.
<date>1 Aug 04</date></note>
</p>
</item>
<item>Reporting on the new Physical Bibliography workgroup, 
        SB said  that Terry Catapano had initiated a discussion
	list (<ref target="http://listserv.brown.edu/tei-pb.html"/>);
	that a new European member (Anne-Mette Hansen) had joined the
	group; and that Terry, Richard Noble, and JF had make a
	well-received presentation about the workgroup at a recent
	American Library Association meeting.</item>
<item>Under AOB,
        SS reported on expected speakers at the 2004 Members Meeting. It was noted that a
	single written report from the Council would be made, for which CW
	needed input from all active workgroups. 
<note type="action">
<label>all</label>
send material for Council report to CW
<date>30 Sep 04</date>
</note></item>
</list>
        <p>A provisional date of  <date when="2004-09-20">Mon, 20 Sep
04</date> was set for the next call.</p>

    </body>
  </text></TEI>