<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2005-03"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2005-03" when="2005-03-28">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>28 March 2005</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM016</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>This electronic file is the source.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm16</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>All  Council members were present,  except LR who had sent
	apologies; SB arrived late</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
        <head>Review of Actions</head>
        <p>The following action items from the <ref target="./tcm15.xml">previous minutes</ref> were reviewed:
</p>
        <list type="gloss">
          <label>Stylesheet call</label><item>JF had produced notes,
	  and these had been discussed. It had been suggested that MZ
	  might set up a WIKI to host process at NYU. Chair queried
	  whether this would not be better done on the main TEI site. JF
	  agreed this would be desirable, but it was not yet clear
	  how this fitted in with UVA's website development plans. SR
	  noted that the choice of site supporting the WIKI did not
	  matter so long as the address wiki.tei-c.org (or
	  tei-c.org/wiki) could be mapped to it.             
              <note type="action"><label>JF</label>
              to pursue wiki redirection with DP and report.
              <date>2005-04-10</date>
            </note></item>
          <label>P5 Editing Environment</label><item>LB reported that
	  he had received input from most Council members and was
	  working on a draft HowTo document to help testers get
	  started. Council stressed the importance of making such a
	  document available as soon (and as widely) as
	  possible. Noted that the document would need input from
	  those with access to non-Unix platforms and expertise in
	  other editors.
              <note type="action"><label>LB</label>
              to circulate preliminary draft of HowTo document within
	      next two weeks
              <date>2005-04-10</date></note></item>
          <label>P5 delivery</label><item>SR reported that he had
	  drafted a document on P5 system maintenance with
	 information useful for those trying to use the supplied P5
	 Makefile. Council agreed that this topic also needed to be
	 addressed, and that a simple README for P5 would also be
	 useful. 
<note type="action"><label>JC</label>
to draft README for P5 source files
<date>2005-04-10</date></note>
	 LB stated that  investigation into how best to install P5 in
	 non-Linux platforms was also needed. </item>
<label>Editorial Committee</label><item>LB reported that there had
been some feedback on this, but not as yet enough to warrant setting
up a committee distinct from the Council. </item>
	</list>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Activity Reports</head>
        <list type="gloss">
<label>StandOff WG</label><item>SB reported complete inactivity from
the group. Council noted that the current SA chapter still needed
a considerable amount of explanatory and editorial work.</item>
<label>ISO-FS</label><item>LB reported that the DIS was now out for
national ballot within ISO member organizations</item>
<label>Phys Bib WG</label><item>JF reported that she had approached
ODonnell to head this wg, who had declined; she was pursuing other
possibilities. The group had however made some preliminary suggestions which
could be considered for inclusion in P5: it was agreed that this
should be circulated to Council for comment.
              <note type="action"><label>JF</label>
              to circulate informal report on suggestions so far
	      produced by PhysBib wg  to Council.
              <date>2005-04-10</date>
            </note></item>
<label>BiblItem</label><item>PW had had some discussion with members
of the group about the nature of the new proposal. LB expressed
concern that the existing <gi>biblStruct</gi> element should not be
removed from P5 until there had been opportunity to compare the two
proposals; this was agreed. SB and PW were requested to collect
and report on the issues. A link to the relevant documents and
proposals should be available from the Activities web page, and the
matter discussed at the next Council meeting. LB reported that the
basic ideas had been well received by INIST at the meeting he had
recently attended in  Nancy.
              <note type="action"><label>PW</label>
              to  report on biblItem proposals   to Council.
              <date>2005-04-15</date>
            </note>
</item>
<label>Metadata Standards</label>
<item>JW and NS were poised to request input from cataloguers for
production of a TEI Header/MARC
cross-walk using a spreadsheet. Council requested that this should also be made available for
review via the Activities web page.
              <note type="action"><label>JW</label>
              to  provide draft report for posting on website.
              <date>2005-04-05</date>
            </note>
</item>
<label>Manuscript description</label>
<item>MD reported that he and LB had a preliminary list of potential
reviewers for the new MS material and hoped to send it out within the
next two weeks, as soon as supporting documentation was
available. There had been some minor changes to the draft in response
to comments received since the first release, and more were
anticipated. Council approved the suggested review method,
recommending that reviewers be asked to file individual reports within
a short timescale, and that feedback provided should also be circulated to the
existing MS-SIG list. It was noted that dealing with comments might
require considerable effort.
              <note type="action"><label>MD</label>
              to  progress review procedure for MS chapter
<date>2005-04-12</date>
            </note>
</item>
	</list></div>
      <div>
        <head>Work on P5</head>
        <p>Council considered three documents concerning next stages
      of work on TEI P5: <ref target="../Drafts/edw81.xml"/>, <ref target="../Drafts/edw86.xml"/> and <ref target="../Drafts/edw87.xml"/>. The first sets out the current
      state of the various chapters of P5. It had been proposed that each council
      member should attempt to review at least one chapter before the
      Paris meeting. There was some discussion about the nature of
      review required, and the stability of the current version of P5,
      in which some systematic changes were still anticipated. It was
      agreed that chapters should be reviewed primarily for content,
      in line with the draft suggestions for MS reviewers (circulated
      to Council for comment by LB in an email of 29 March). Council
      members were requested to notify the chair of their preferences
      by suggesting up to  three chapters in preference order. 
<note type="action"><label>ALL</label>
              to  send CW a list of their chapter preferences
<date>2005-04-3</date>
            </note>              <note type="action"><label>CW</label>
              to  collate stated preferences and send out list of chapter
	      assignments
<date>2005-04-8</date>
            </note>
	</p>
<p>ED86 and EDW87 contain both suggested design principles and
lists of attributes or elements affected by their proposed
application. The former concerns (primarily) text-valued attributes
and the latter concerns class membership.  In discussion of EDW81, it
was  agreed that attributes replaced by child elements should not be
retained also as attributes. A question was raised about what policy
should apply to cases where attributes were being transformed into
child elements for elements which already had child content, in
particular mixed content. Lack of time prevented detailed discussion
of the documents. </p>
<p> Council endorsed the
general direction of the principles proposed and agreed that they
should be discussed in more detail at the Paris meeting, with a view
to proceeding directly to implementation of the principles thereafter.
<note type="action"><label>ALL</label>
              to  review documents EDW86 and EDW87 in detail, raising
	      any queries by email as soon as possible.
<date>2005-04-26</date>
            </note>  </p>

      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Next Meeting</head>
        <p>As previously agreed, the Council will hold its annual face to face
	meeting at  AFNOR in Paris, starting at 1400 on 28 April. The
	aim is to complete the meeting by Friday 29th evening, but the
	morning of Saturday 30th will be available if necessary. </p>
      </div>
    </body>
  </text></TEI>