<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2005-09"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2005-09" when="2005-09-09">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>9 September 2005</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM019</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>This electronic file is the source.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm19</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Call began at 13:03 with SB, LB, JC, JF, NS, SS, PW, and
          CW; LR joined at approximately 13:36</p>
        <p>All times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div n="1">
        <head>Review of Actions</head>
        <p>The following action items from the <ref target="./tcm18.xml?style=printable">previous minutes</ref>
          were reviewed:
        <list type="gloss">
            <label>JC, HOWTO</label><item> Draft is done, updates in
              progress. <note type="action"> <label>JC</label> Finish
                up based on recent discussion on council list; 1 or 2
                Council members should test-drive the result. After
                update based on Council members' input, if any, JC to
                post to TEI-L requesting users to test-drive.
                <date>2005-09-18</date> </note>
            </item>
            <label>MD post summary of comments, etc.</label><item> LB
              reports this has been done.</item>
            <label>LB</label><item> reports that he has assassinated a
              few attributes</item>
            <label>JF, <att>cert</att></label><item>report
              posted last night, but still needs to address the
              specific question of <att>cert</att>, <att>certainty</att>, and <att>exact</att>. Suggested that JF will
              be finishing up the rationalization of the attributes,
              but also to post to TEI-L and raise discussion of
              certainty in general.</item>
            <label>LB</label><item> not done; waiting on SA</item>
            <label>SB, XPointer scheme registration</label><item> DD
              has been in touch with Henry Thompson, and has learned
              that the W3C has yet to get a mechanism for scheme
              registration going. In the meantime, TEI should announce
              (to which specific person at the W3C or a list should we
              announce this?) our intention to register our schemes
              when such a registration system is available. It is not
              clear whether a MIME type will be required or not. It
              was suggested that it might be helpful for TEI to
              officially inform W3C that we are looking forward to the
              appearance of such a registration mechanism. <note type="action"> <label>CW</label> write a letter to W3C
                expressing TEI's interest in the completion of an
                XPointer scheme registry and system for registering
                schemes. </note></item>
            <label>SB, BIBL</label><item> deliberately
              deferred.</item>
            <label>others</label><item> â€” all done.</item>
        </list>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div n="2">
        <head>Review of WG etc. progress</head>
        <div>
          <head>SA: segmentation &amp; alignment</head>
          <p>SB reports that DD sent him a draft of
            <ident type="file">sa.odd</ident> less than 8 hours ago, and he has
            not read it yet. There will be a slight delay getting it
            merged with current changes and checked in properly. SB
            expects it will be checked in by Monday.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>FS: feature structures</head>
          <p>LB was recently at the TEI-ISO WG meeting in Warsaw, and
            reports that FS is now officially a draft international
            standard, and that it received almost unanimous support.
            Much of the credit goes to Kiyong Lee, whom council thanks
            for shepherding this chapter through the sometimes daunting
            challenges of ISO procedure. In Warsaw there was agreement
            that there be a new work item for ISO to do the same thing
            for feature system declaration. This will be part 2 of ISO
            24610. The current idea is to start with TEI FD as a
            basis, but look at other ontology definition languages,
            other automatic validation tools, etc. Hoping to involve
            some people from the web ontology community. Group will be
            set up under SC4, LB will continue to be liaison.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="3">
        <head>Report about TEI Council/ W3C I18N collaboration</head>
        <p>SR has finally officially become an invited expert of the
          W3C workgroup charged with the issue of internationalization
          of tagsets, and will be joining their second face-to-face
          meeting in Nice in a few days.</p>
      </div>
      <div n="4">
        <head>Report about TEI I18N activity</head>
        <p>SR, VL, and JF have made great progress on the draft grant
          request to ALLC. An appeal was posted to TEI-L seeking
          people interested in translating, and about 20 responses were
          received. SR is keeping a database of these interested
          parties. A little translation work has actually already been
          done. Stylesheets are finished.</p>
        <p>How to incorporate translated ODDs into P5 has yet to be
          worked out. SR plans to show some examples at Members'
          Meeting.</p>
        <p>SR asks about translations of attributes and things that are
          going to be dropped. We need a mechanism for translators to
          be able to ascertain when the canonical English language
          version is changed. CW would
          like to get a time frame for when things settle down and
          major changes have subsided.</p>
        <p>We also discussed the P4-&gt;P5 translation stylesheet, which
          SR suggested should be kept up to date with changes to
          P5.</p>
        <p>LB reports a related fact: he has recently received a first
          draft of translation into French of HD from [??].</p>
        <p>There are going to be a lot of terminological issues in
          maintaining translations. Furthermore, we need to be clear
          how we support internationalized examples.</p>
      </div>
      <div n="5">
        <head>P5 progress</head>
        <div>
          <head>on Attributes and Datatypes (EDW90)</head>
          <p>SB reports that great progress has been made in recent
            discussions. The EDW90 data was created under the
            presumption that we would have the capability to declare
            an attribute as a particular datatype and then further
            constrain or relax the allowed values using RelaxNG. Since
            this turns out not to be the case, a second pass through
            the assigned values to attributes (with possible
            modification of datatypes) is required.
            <note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              Re-assign attribute datatypes without presumption
                of further RelaxNG constraint or relaxation
            </note>
          </p>
          <p>The previously agreed item that
            <ident type="datatype">tei.data.key</ident> should be an
            <ident type="datatype">xsd:Name</ident> was reiterated, but SB notes this
            change has not been reflected in EDW90 yet.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>on Classes</head>
          <p>Class meeting will be held in Oxford, <date from="2005-09-26" to="2005-09-27">26 &amp; 27 Sep</date>. At the
            meeting we should review the way elements are assigned to
            classes, and, much as EDW90 has for datatypes, come up
            with a semi-definitive list for classes and element
            assignments to them. The output of this meeting should be
            the source of rewriting ST.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>Priorities</head>
          <list>
            <item>
              complete datatypes
              <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                make tagdocs of datatypes themselves
                <date>2005-09-23</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <item>complete attributes
              <note type="action">
                <label>Eds.</label>
                assign attributes to datatypes
              </note>
            </item>
            <item>classes</item>
            <item>remove DTD dependencies, rewrite SG</item>
            <item><note place="inline">It is hoped that all of the
                above, including rewrites of SG and ST, can be
                substantially complete by the end of the
                year.</note></item>
            <item>DI</item>
            <item>terminology</item>
            <item>PB</item>
            <item>SH</item>
          </list>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="6">
        <head>Other business</head>
        <p>None.</p>
      </div>
      <div n="7">
        <head>Meetings</head>
        <p>JF &amp; SB report that planning for the Members' Meeting
          is going well. After some initial false starts Matt
          Zimmerman seems to be doing an excellent job. Logistics are
          almost completely in place, thanks to the efforts of both
          Matthew and local organizer Anissava Miltenova.</p>
        <p>The program has been decided upon in the greater sense
          (what events there will be, who the speakers are, what is on
          which day), and Matt has even proposed a detailed schedule
          which will hopefully be hammered out in the next 2
          weeks.</p>
        <p>SB has recently secured corporate
          sponsorship funding from SyncRO Soft (makers of
          &lt;oXygen/&gt;).</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Next Call</head>
        <p>Our next conference call should occur sometime in
          mid-November. We will once again use
          http://www.meetomatic.com/calendar.asp to attempt
          scheduling, SR to coordinate.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>Call ended at 14:18.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text></TEI>