<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2005-12"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2005-12" when="2005-12-16">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>16 December 2005</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM021</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>This electronic file is the source.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm21</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Call began at 12:00 with SB, AB, LB, JC, DP, SR, NS, SS, CT, PW,
	CW</p>
<p>Apologies were relayed from MD; also received (subsequently) from MZ and LR</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div n="1">
        <head>Review of Actions</head>
        <p>Action items from both the previous <ref target="./tcm19.xml">full meeting</ref> and the <ref target="./tcm20.xml">classes sub meeting</ref>
          were reviewed
        <list type="gloss">
            <label>P5 "Howto"</label><item> Draft had been reviewed and
	    updated and was now thought to be ready for
	    prime time: it should be moved from the Drafts section of
	    the website to a putative Notes section, or maybe
	    published on the Wiki. <note type="action"> <label>JC</label>Review
	    and then disseminate the P5 howto.<date>2005-12-31</date> </note>
            </item>
            <label>XPointer scheme registration</label><item>SB had
	    succeeded in registering the TEI scheme, modulo some need
	    to choose between <ident>xpath</ident> and
	    <ident>xpath1</ident> as a name.</item>
            <label>BIBL</label><item>[The minutes of the Sept meeting
	    say this action on SB was  "deliberately deferred" but it
	    seems to have vanished without trace!].</item>
            <label>Datatypes</label><item>All actions
	    completed.</item>
<label>lbl vs label</label><item>LB reported no action, pending
discussion with LR</item>
<label>stylesheet problems</label><item>SR reported stylesheets had
been fixed to make
<att>xml:id</att> now visible and section numbering now more
rational in HTML version of P5 Guidelines: this won't be visible to
the world until next release however </item>
<label><gi>g</gi> availability</label><item>Done</item>
        </list>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div n="2">
        <head>Review of WG etc. progress</head>
        <list type="gloss">
<label>PB: Physical Bibliography</label>
<item>CW had received an update from Murray McGilvray which he would
circulate to Council: not much progress yet.</item>
          <label>SO: segmentation &amp; alignment</label>
          <item>The workgroup was now inactive and 
	  the status of its deliverables seemed a little unclear. SB
	  was asked to investigate and report. <note type="action"><label>SB</label><date>2005-12-31</date>
Circulate summary report on SO workgroup outputs to date</note></item>
<label>FS: feature structures</label>
          <item>LB reported that the draft had now been ratified by
	  ISO. The new work item on  feature system declaration had
	  been accepted, and a meeting had been proposed to start the
	  work in Korea on 16 Jan; LB was however unable to attend.</item>
<label>General</label><item>CW noted that the list of activities on
the web site was out of date; LB made the traditional comment that web
site maintenance was not the editors' job.<note type="action"><label>LB</label>to update the Activities
webpage <date>asap</date></note>. It was noted that no other work groups were still
active. </item></list>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>New Work Item: personography</head>
        <p>As informally discussed in Sofia, LB had recently completed some minor changes to the
	available elements for recording data about persons and
	introduced a new <gi>listPerson</gi> element. SR, Matthew
	Driscoll, and he had discussed how best to take the work
	forward, and come to the conclusion that it might be worth
	paying a student to undertake some preliminary survey work
	before convening a small meeting on the topic. </p>
<p>SR noted that the board had allocated $24K to the Council for the
current financial year; if half that was devoted to the May meeting, a
budget of $6K for each of two workgroups would be feasible.</p>
<p>Several Council members expressed interest in contributing to the
work. After discussion, Council agreed to ask Matthew Driscoll to
chair the activity with a fixed budget of $6K. <note type="action"><label>CW, LB</label>Draft charge for personography
activity, including deadlines and workplan.<date>2005-12-31</date></note></p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>New Work Item: PageImages</head>
<p>Following recent discussion on the council list, it was agreed that
there was a need to document TEI best practice with respect to the
management of texts including or consisting of digitized page images,
given the wide variety of current practice. Conall agreed to take on
the task of producing a preliminary draft, and making it available for
further discussion via the TEI wiki.<note type="action"><label>CT</label>Initiate and facilitate production of
note on Page Image Management; report on progress to next Council
meeting. <date>2006-02-24</date></note></p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>P5 progress</head>
        <p>LB had previously circulated the following brief note:
        <list type="ordered">
<item>During October there was extensive
        work on attributes and datatypes, which was completed in time
        for a release of P5 (0.2.1) to take place on the 21st.</item>
<item> During November, the priority was to work on classes. A
detailed programme of work was agreed following the Council meeting in
Oxford, and is now complete. Full details of the changes made are
available from http://www.tei-c.org/Drafts/edw92.xml</item>

<item>Some outstanding issues remain on the class front, in particular  there is still need for a  review of many chapters not discussed at the  Oxford meeting.  Enough work has been done, however, to proceed to the revision of chapter ST, which is the next priority.</item>
<item>In December, Matthew Driscoll visited Oxford, resulting in a number of minor corrections to the MS chapter.</item>
<item>A new "listPerson" element has been introduced to facilitate encoding of "personographical" data: this was tested on some data supplied by Matthew which now forms a new component of the test suite.</item>
<item>New material for inclusion in chapters SA and NH has been received but not yet reviewed by both editors.</item>
	</list>
	</p>

<p>Discussing this, Council noted that the legend "done" in EDW92
meant that the change had been applied in CVS. A new full release
would include these changes; it was agreed that the next release
should also include a less misleading version of chapter ST, much of
which is currently plain wrong. <note type="action"><label>LB</label>
Ensure that ST corrections are completed
<date>2006-01-31</date></note></p>
<p>Council discussed how best to take forward the outstanding work on
revising class memberships, in particular how to repeat the Oxford
process for chapters other than core, header, structure. Possibilities
included another ftf meeting for the same group, a series of
conference calls taking each module one at a time, email list etc. A
specific proposal was requested. <note type="action"><label>SB</label>
organize a proposal on  how best to prosecute the class struggle <date>2005-12-31</date></note></p>
      </div>

<div><head>Annual  FTF Meeting</head>
          <p>Council agreed that a meeting mid-May in Kyoto would be
	  its first preference. Travel costs could be reduced if this
	  were held in conjunction with some kind of TEI Training
	  event. <note type="action"><label>CW</label>Investigate
	  options for holding council meeting/TEI training meeting in
	  Kyoto, reporting back by next call. <date>2006-02-24</date></note></p>
<p>SS offered facilities at MITH, in the Washington area, should this
not be possible. Paris and Oxford were also available, as
previously.</p></div>

<div><head>AOB</head>
<p>PW reported that the "TEI in Libraries" group was now working as
part of the US Digital Library Foundation, and wouild be holding a
meeting next month in Washington to update its now rather elderly
Guidelines on best practice in using the TEI. These Guidelines will
continue to be based on TEI P4. It was suggested that they could
nevertheless be usefully enhanced with a section on <q>preparing for
P5</q> or some such, which should highlight any potential problems in
migration from P4 to P5 for the library community. SB (and other
Council members) will be
attending this meeting and was asked to report back from it. <note type="action"><label>SB/SS/NS</label>Report back from TEI Libraries
meeting at next TEI Council call. <date>2006-02-24</date></note></p>
</div>
      <div>
        <head>Next Call</head>
        <p>The date of 24 Feb at the same time was proposed.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>Call ended at 13:10 or thereabouts.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text></TEI>