<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2005-04"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2005-04" from="2005-04-28" to="2005-04-29">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Paris</placeName>, <date>28–29 April 2005</date></meeting><author>Syd Bauman</author></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM017</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>This electronic (TEI Lite P4 XML) file was created from
        notes taken by the author during the meeting.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm17</change><change>5 May 05 LB: assorted updates and fixes</change><change>4 May 05 SB: first draft</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <front>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_01">
        <p>Times are local time (CEST, +02:00) unless otherwise noted.</p>
<!--        <list type="simple">
          <head>Initials Used for People</head>
          <item> <term>SB</term> <gloss>Syd Bauman</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>AB</term> <gloss>Alejandro Bia</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>DB</term> <gloss>David Birnbaum</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>LB</term> <gloss>Lou Burnard</gloss>      </item>
          <item> <term>TC</term> <gloss>Terry Catapano</gloss>   </item>
          <item> <term>JC</term> <gloss>James Cummings</gloss>   </item>
          <item> <term>MD</term> <gloss>Matthew Driscoll</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>DD</term> <gloss>David Durand</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <term>JF</term> <gloss>Julia Flanders</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>AH</term> <gloss>Anne Mette Hansen</gloss>  </item>
          <item> <term>KL</term> <gloss>Kiyong Lee</gloss>      </item>
          <item> <term>DP</term> <gloss>Daniel Pitti</gloss>     </item>
          <item> <term>SR</term> <gloss>Sebastian Rahtz</gloss>      </item>
          <item> <term>LR</term> <gloss>Laurent Romary</gloss>    </item>
          <item> <term>SS</term> <gloss>Susan Schreibman</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>JS</term> <gloss>John Smith</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>NS</term> <gloss>Natasha Smith</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>EV</term> <gloss>Edward Vanhoutte</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>JW</term> <gloss>John Walsh</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>PW</term> <gloss>Perry Willett</gloss>       </item>
          <item> <term>CW</term> <gloss>Christian Wittern</gloss>       </item>
        </list> -->
        <p>Members present were: <list type="simple">
            <item>Syd Bauman</item>
            <item>Alejandro Bia</item>
            <item>Lou Burnard</item>
            <item>James Cummings</item>
            <item>Matthew Driscoll</item>
            <item>Julia Flanders</item>
            <item>Laurent Romary</item>
            <item>Susan Schreibman</item>
            <item>Natasha Smith</item>
            <item>Edward Vanhoutte</item>
            <item>John Walsh</item>
            <item>Perry Willett</item>
            <item>Christian Wittern</item>
          </list> Which is to say that all Council members were
          present (including the ex-officio editors), except for
          Sebastian Rahtz, who had indicated before the meeting had
          even been arranged he would not be available.</p>
        <p>Meetings were held at <ref target="http://www.afnor.fr/portail.asp">AFNOR</ref> (room
          34), from 14:15 to 18:00 on <date when="2005-04-28">Thu
            28</date> and from 09:05 to 16:51 on <date when="2005-04-29">Fri 29</date>, with a lunch break from
          12:30 to 13:45. Because her purse had been stolen in Paris,
          Susan Schreibman was unable to attend on Friday; Laurent
          Romary left at 12:28 on Friday.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_02">
        <p>Council extends its heartfelt gratitude to AFNOR for
          hosting our meeting, and to Laurent Romary for organizing
          it. An essentially flawless operation at a nice, clean,
          well-run institution helped provide for a successful
          meeting.</p>
        <p>Council also extends its condolences to Susan Schreibman,
          who had to suffer through the (all too common) frustration,
          stress, and annoyance of having her passport, money, and
          credit cards stolen when her purse was snatched in
          Paris.</p>
        <p>With consultation of the group, Chair inserted two new
          agenda items and swapped the order of two others. The added
          items were a discussion of <gi>equiv</gi>, which never
          occurred, and of edw89. Two items were swapped such that
          chapter reviews were discussed prior to new work items, in
          order to accommodate Laurent Romary's departure.</p>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_03">
        <head>Review of Actions</head>
        <p>The following action items from the <ref target="./tcm16.xml">previous conference call</ref> were
          reviewed.</p>
        <list type="gloss">
          <label>wiki &amp; call for stylesheets</label>
          <item>Julia Flanders reports TEI now has a wiki, set up by
            Sebastian Rahtz, Matthew Zimmerman, James Cummings, Daniel
            Pitti, and others at Oxford. Anyone with valid e-mail
            address can register and edit the wiki. All that is on the
            wiki now is the call for stylesheets. <note place="foot">By meetings end an area for submission of
              P5 customizations had been created by James Cummings
              &amp; Syd Bauman; no customizations were deposited,
              though.</note> James Cummings and Daniel Pitti will be
            submitting model stylesheets. There have been two
            responses to the Call for Stylesheets so far, neither one
            of which was actually a stylesheet, but one indicated
            excitement about the plan.</item>
          <label>P5 Editing Environment HOWTO Document</label>
          <item>Lou Burnard reports P5 HOWTO has been circulated, and
            that he is seeking feedback on it. John Walsh &amp;
            Christian Wittern have both read the document &amp; tried
            the procedure outlined, but each of them had difficulties
            which have been reported to Lou Burnard.</item>
          <label>README for P5 source files</label>
          <item>James Cummings reports that the README is only for the
            <name>p5</name> module. Christian Wittern suggests, and it
            was generally agreed, that the README should provide
            sufficient instruction to facilitate a local installation,
            which would require the <name>stylesheets</name> module,
            too. Council discussed whether or not the stylesheet
            information should be in the same README or a separate
            one, but decided it was not fruitful to make a decision at
            this time, as Sebastian is changing how the two modules
            interact. <note type="action"> <label>JC</label> Create a
              HOWTO for the stylesheet module however he prefers (as
              part of current HOWTO or separately) , will be combined
              or separated later.<date>2005-07-01</date></note></item>
          <label>Physical Bibliography Report</label>
          <item>Julia Flanders reports that she had indeed circulated
            reports.</item>
          <label>Report on <gi>biblItem</gi> Proposal</label>
     <item>Perry Willett's report is on today's agenda</item>
          <label>Draft Report for Posting on Website</label>
          <item>John Walsh reports that the draft report on MARC/TEI
          crosswalk had been.</item>
          <label>Review Procedure for MS</label>
          <item>Matthew Driscoll reports that a set of reviewers for
          the MS chapter had
          been contacted; all  have responded
            affirmatively, except for one (a contact at the Ecole des
          Chartes who would be followed up by Laurent Romary). Consuelo Dutschke has
            als sent in detailed comments. Council agreed that Matthew
            Driscoll should review the critiques that he receives, and post as soon as possible a list of items that
            need to be addressed and perhaps a proposal for further
            work for Council's consideration.<note type="action">
              <label>MD</label>
              post summary of comments received on MS, with
                proposed responses
            </note>
            <note type="action">
              <label>MD</label>
              finish revisions to manuscript description chapter
                (MS) 
              <date>2005-10-21</date>
            </note>.</item>
          <label>Chapter Review Assignments</label>
          <item>Christian Wittern reports that the assignments of
            chapters to members of Council for review has been
            accomplished.</item>
        </list>
        <p>The editors both point out that it is very important that
          all council members become familiar with creating P5
          customizations with the ODD language (either using Roma web
          interface, or otherwise).</p>
        <p>Council discussed some  details of the
          documentation needed to make effective use of P5. It was suggested
          that three different documents are needed: <list type="simple">
            <item>a reference document on the ODD tagset ߞ
              already done, the <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/TD.html">Documentation
                Elements</ref> (aka TD) chapter</item>
            <item>a tutorial guide on using ODD — already begun:
              <ref target="../Drafts/edw88.xml">edw88</ref></item>
            <item>a reference document discussing the principles to
          follow when
              modifying TEI — the <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/MD.html">Modifying and
                Customizing the TEI DTD</ref> (aka MD) chapter, which
              needs <soCalled>major surgery</soCalled></item>
          </list>
        </p>
        <p>Currently instructions for installing and running the
        standalone Roma utility only
        apply to a generic (Debian-like) system. It was suggested that
        this was easily confused with the web-hosted Roma application,
        and maybe the two should have different names. It was agreed
        that modifying the standalone shell script to run in other
        environments would be very useful. <note type="action">
            <label>AB</label>
             attempt to get standalone Roma working locally under
              Windows<date>2005-07-01</date></note></p>
        <p>It was suggested and agreed that
        instructions for using P5 should include some guidance for how
        to use it in particular environments, for example basic high-level
        instructions, such as  which folder should contain the P5
        grammar fragments (DTD or schema); how to tell the application which grammar
        you want to use for a given document; how to add new grammars etc.
          <note type="action">
            <label>AB</label>
            Instructions for using a P5 grammar in XMLSpy &amp;
              XMetal <date>2005-07-01</date></note>
          <note type="action">
            <label>JW</label>
            Instructions for using a P5 grammar in oXygen
            <date>2005-07-01</date></note> </p>
        <p>In response to a question from John Walsh, Council
            discussed whether  users should be advised to specify TEI
            grammars by defining an ODD or by manipulating grammar
            fragments in a particular schema language such as RelaxNG
            or DTD. Both are permitted, but for modifications in
            particular the consensus was that the ODD route was
            preferable, assuming the availability of  reliable tools.
<!--          <soCalled>permitted</soCalled> to create P5 RelaxNG grammars
          directly was briefly discussed. No formal vote was taken,
            but the majority of participants in the discussion thought
            not. --><!-- LR, LB, CW thought not; SB dissents, claiming
            the users may have trouble creating schemas from ODDs, as
            (AB or JW reported) and
            that shouldn't stop them from using TEI. --></p>
        <p>The subject of extending the manuscript description
          capability to stone rubbings was raised. Council was
          reminded that we had explicitly decided to handle
          manuscripts first, before all other <soCalled>Text Bearing
            Objects</soCalled><!-- (<abbr expan="text bearing objects">TBO</abbr>s).--></p>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_04">
        <head>Principles of Attribute Usage in P5</head>
        <p>Council discussed <ref target="../Drafts/edw86.xml">ED W
            86</ref> in detail. The first item discussed was the
          general proposal for handling of textual attributes on
          elements that have content.</p>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_05">
          <head>Real text and where to put it</head>
          <p>A recommendation for an internal wrapper element around the
            elements that represent what used to be
            attributes was considered.<note resp="SB" place="foot">E.g., something
        like <eg>
&lt;supplied-prime&gt;
  &lt;attrs&gt;
    &lt;agent&gt;ablah&lt;/agent&gt;
    &lt;reason&gt;rblah&lt;/reason&gt;
  &lt;/attrs&gt;
  &lt;supplied&gt;whatever&lt;/supplied&gt;
&lt;/supplied-prime&gt;</eg></note> Use of a generic wrapper element,
            rather than different wrappers for each content-bearing
            element which currently has textual attributes (i.e., the
            equivalent of ISO TC37/SC4's 
            <gi>brack</gi> element, was also considered.<note resp="SB" place="foot">E.g., something like <eg>
&lt;prime&gt;
  &lt;agent&gt;ablah&lt;/agent&gt;
  &lt;reason&gt;rblah&lt;/reason&gt;
  &lt;supplied&gt;whatever&lt;/supplied&gt;
&lt;/prime&gt;</eg></note> The editors objected to both of these
            proposals because it would be impossible to 
            constrain which <soCalled>attributes</soCalled> go with which elements.</p>
          <p>It was also suggested that the wrapper element retain the
            same name as in P4 name, and have a generic
            <gi>content</gi> child element. <note resp="SB" place="foot">E.g., something like <eg>
&lt;supplied&gt;
  &lt;agent&gt;ablah&lt;/agent&gt;
  &lt;reason&gt;rblah&lt;/reason&gt;
  &lt;content&gt;whatever&lt;/content&gt;
&lt;/supplied&gt;</eg></note>. This could only work if all elements
          had the same content: it was agreed that  investigation
          of real cases was needed to decide the issue<note type="action">
            <label>MD</label>
            to create some  
            examples demonstrating the different approaches</note>. This proposal was thought to be
            sufficiently promising as to merit further investigation. It
            may also be useful for other similar problems, particularly
            with the naming set of elements.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_06">
          <head>generic datatypes and further constraints</head>
          <p>Council discussed some of the issues surrounding the
            simplified datatype system suggested in ED W 86.</p>
          <p>Concern was expressed <!-- by SB --> that relying solely
          on the use of the
            <gi>valList</gi> element limited our ability to constrain
          attribute values (you cannot define a valList to say that an
          attribute must be a positive integer less than 42, for
          example). It was not clear how many such cases there were:
          if they are few in number, a small set of patterns might
          suffice for that need.</p>
<p>Overall, Council endorsed  the general approach in favour of having
          fewer, more general, 
            datatypes as presented in ED W 86. <note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              review all  current attributes, attempt to
                classify each as a particular datatype, looking for
                attributes that need a new datatype, are eligible for
                requiring a &lt;valList&gt;, or need extra
                constraint; also consider use of tei.tokens vs.
                rng:text, particularly with respect to
                rend attribute
              <date>2005-06-01</date></note>.</p>
          <p>A suggestion was made that a datatype
            <ident type="datatype">tei.enumerated</ident> be created which would be
            similar to <ident type="datatype">tei.token</ident>, except that it would
            require a <gi>valList</gi> (i.e., a documented closed list
            of possible values), whereas <ident type="datatype">tei.token</ident>
            permits, but does not require, a <gi>valList</gi>. It was
            suggested that when Syd goes through the list, he would
            report if any seem eligible for requiring
            <gi>valList</gi>; also if any need extra constraints (like
            pattern or positive integer).</p>
<!--          <p>Julia Flanders requested a feature that permits user to
            easily change <name>tei.token</name> to
            <name>tei.enumerated</name>, thus to force themselves to
            add a <gi>valList</gi>.</p> --><!-- we already have this
          feature: it's an ODD -->
          <p>It was agreed that <ident type="datatype">tei.enumerated</ident> might be
            useful even though a schema designer
            could just change it to <ident type="datatype">tei.token</ident>.</p>
          <p>Council briefly discussed whether or not every
            element that bears a <att>type</att>
            attribute should automatically get a <att>subtype</att> as well: it was noted that
          deciding this issue was a matter of how the typed class
          should be defined.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_07">
          <head>Miscellaneous</head>
          <p>It was noted that some of the elements in ED W 79 are
            already handled, and thus are not listed in the table at
            the end of ED W 86 (e.g. the <att>sic</att> attribute of
            <gi>corr</gi>).</p>
        <p>Council briefly discussed, but did not endorse, a
            suggestion for a capture schema, and a stylesheet for
            transforming to vanilla TEI.</p>
        <p>It was suggested <!-- by LB --> that we look at
          the three methods so far proposed
          (and perhaps 
            others) for handling <att>reg</att> on
            the various naming elements.<note resp="SB" place="foot">Those three solutions are:<list type="gloss">
                <label>wrapping</label>
                <item><eg>
&lt;choice&gt;
  &lt;name&gt;Bill Clinton&lt;/name&gt;
  &lt;reg&gt;Clinton, William J.&lt;/reg&gt;
&lt;/choice&gt;</eg> Recommended by ED W 79</item>
                <label>pointing</label>
                <item><eg>
&lt;reg xml:id="rn17"&gt;Clinton, William J.&lt;/reg&gt;
&lt;!-- above &lt;reg&gt; element may be somewhere in &lt;teiHeader&gt; or &lt;hyperDiv&gt;,
          and may be part of a new prosopographic element, and may end
          up being something other than &lt;reg&gt; ... all undetermined as
          of yet --&gt;
&lt;!-- ... --&gt;
&lt;name reg="#rn17"&gt;Bill Clinton&lt;/name&gt;</eg> Suggested as a
          possibility by ED W 79</item>
                <label>using child element</label>
                <item><eg>
&lt;name&gt;
  &lt;reg&gt;Clinton, William J.&lt;/reg&gt;
  &lt;content&gt;Bill Clinton&lt;/content&gt;
&lt;/name&gt;</eg></item>
              </list>
</note> <note type="action">
              <label>JF &amp; PW</label>
              look at the various methods for handling <att>reg</att> of the various naming
                elements, and report back to Council
              <date>2005-07-01</date></note>.</p>
          <p>The <gi>index</gi> element has the three attributes for
            specifying the index headings under which the current spot
            should be indexed (<att>level1</att>,
            <att>level2</att>, and <att>level3</att>). Lou Burnard reported on
            recent discussion among Lou Burnard, Syd Bauman, Sebastian
            Rahtz, James Cummings, Christian Wittern, and others on
            what to do with these attributes; and presented a further
            suggestion using <gi>seg</gi> children of <gi>label</gi>; more to follow. <note type="action">
              <label>LB</label>
              Report on progress of discussions of
                &lt;index&gt; attributes
            </note>
          </p>
          <p>Council discussed some of the implications of using
            <ident type="datatype">tei.tokens</ident> rather than
            <name>rng:text</name> for the datatype of the global
            <att>rend</att> attribute. It was
            agreed that this issue should be addressed in Syd's  report on
            datatypes.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_08">
          <head>Some open issues</head>
          <list type="gloss">
	    <label><att>cert</att> vs. <att>certainty</att></label> <item>ED W
	      86 asks whether these two perform the same function, and
	      thus whether or not both are needed. Council recommended
	      that <att>certainty</att> of
	      <gi>date</gi> and <att>exact</att>
	      of <gi>dateStruct</gi> become <att>precision</att>. Council noted that
	      <att>cert</att> means different
	      things in different places, and thus this issue needs
	      urgent attention. <note type="action"> <label>JF &amp;
		  EV</label> look at <att>cert</att> attribute on different
		elements and think about how they might be
		rationalized, and report results
		<date>2005-07-01</date></note></item>
 <!--           <label><name>tei.numeric</name></label><item> &amp;what;</item> -->
          <label><att>key</att></label><item>
	      Council suggests renaming <att>key</att> to <att>sortKey</att> when used for that
	      purpose.</item>
          <label>On <att>resp</att></label> <item>The
            <att>ref</att> attribute is declared
            IDREF when it occurs on some elements, but for others is
            declared as a token. Council thinks all should be made
            pointers.<note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              Change P5 so that all RESP attributes are declared
                as pointers.
              <date>2005-09-01</date>
            </note>
          </item>
        <label>canonical references</label><item>Canonical references
	      were briefly discussed with respect to
          <att>loc</att> of <gi>app</gi>; it seems
          we could simply remove <att>loc</att> in
          favor of a <att>cref</att> (which would
          likely be used in alternation with <att>from</att> &amp; <att>to</att>) but we need to look into
          location-reference meted etc. <note type="action"><label>LB</label>
            research whether or not LOC performs same function as
              CREF
            <date>2005-07-01</date></note></item>
     </list>
        <p>It was suggested that examples of usage of various new
          encodings of the attributes will be useful.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_09">
        <head>Principles for rationalization of TEI classes</head>
        <p>Council discussed <ref target="../Drafts/edw87.xml">ED W
            87</ref>.</p>
        <p>Classes are all declared globally, but are instantiated
          (i.e., populated) by individual modules. Classes can be
          hierarchical. Creation of a class system from the bottom up
          (deciding that a group of elements have a common semantic
          and thus belong together) and from the top down (finding
          commonalities in syntax of content models) are both
          necessary.</p>
        <p>Council directly addressed the first three of nine rules
          for revising the class system.<list type="ordered">
            <item n="1">Council changed <q>possible</q> to
              <q>reasonable</q>.</item>
            <item n="2">Council agreed, but decided to entertain the
              suggestion that <emph>every</emph> attribute (whether 2
              exist or not) be in a class.</item>
            <item n="3">On suggestion of the editors, Council reworded
              this to <q>... should reference TEI datatypes (which
                are themselves derived from W3C datatypes) directly
                ... </q>.</item>
          </list>
          <note type="action">
            <label>Chapter reviewers</label>
            should consider the
            existing
            classes, and make suggestions as to what new ones are required,
            if any<date>2005-07-01</date></note></p>
        <p>Council to ask Matthew Zimmerman and Wendell Piez if either
          would be interested in writing a visualization tool to make
          class system more tractable.</p>
        <p>Council decided that a meeting to straighten out the TEI
          class system should be held; it is tentatively scheduled to
          occur in Oxford on or about <date when="2005-09-26">Mon 26
            Sep</date>. At least Lou Burnard, Syd Bauman, Sebastian
          Rahtz, Laurent Romary, Christian Wittern to attend.</p>
        <p>Next Council conference call was scheduled for <date when="2005-07-08T13:00:00Z">Fri 08 Jul 13:00 UTC</date>.</p>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_10">
        <head><gi>equiv</gi></head>
        <p>Discussion of  Sebastian Rahtz's suggestion
          on <q>use of <gi>equiv</gi></q> made in e-mail to Lou
          Burnard, Syd Bauman, &amp; Laurent Romary on <date when="2005-04-28T03:52:00Z">28 Apr</date> was deferred (but
        LR has subsequently made some comments).</p>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_11">
        <head>Associating a Schema with an Instance</head>
        <p>Syd Bauman presented <ref target="../Drafts/edw89.xml">ED W
            89</ref>, with an emphasis on the fact that this is
          hopefully going to occur in cooperation with at least
          DocBook, if not OASIS. Concerns were raised that this
          was not a TEI core concern, since it was an issue common to
        any XML application.
          Council agreed Syd Bauman should continue this activity at
          least until next conference call, when he should report
          and Council will again decide.</p>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_12">
        <head>Chapter Reviews</head>
        <p>Chair expressed concern over the process for activities
          that include work on a chapter.</p>
        <p>During chapter review, potential corrigible errors should
          be reported to the <ref target="mailto:tei-council@lists.village.Virginia.EDU">council 
            list</ref>.</p>
        <p>Reviews may ignore occurrences of <soCalled>global
            changes</soCalled> that have not been effected yet,
          including: <list type="simple">
            <item>ID/IDREF</item>
            <item>DOCTYPE declarations</item>
            <item>references to <q>additional</q> or <q>base</q>
              tagsets or the <soCalled>pizza model</soCalled></item>
          </list> However, reviewers should note places where entity
          references are suggested.</p>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_13">
          <head>SA</head>
          <p>Syd Bauman reports that the prose in the <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/SA.html">Linking, Segmentation,
              and Alignment</ref> explaining XPointer and TEI
            extensions thereof still needs a lot of improvement.
            <note type="action"><label>SB
                &amp; DD</label>
              finish writing SA discussions of pointing &amp;
                XPointer extensions; identify external reviewer/s for the chapter.
              <date>2005-07-01</date></note> Also noted that
            what used to be a chapter on canonical references (aka CR)
            is now a section of this chapter; it is not clear whether
            ot not this should be its permanent placement. Council
            suggested approaching Michael Beddow as a reviewer for this
            chapter.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_14">
          <head>Laurent Romary</head>
          <p><label>TE</label> Laurent Romary reports that the specification of
            chapter <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/TE.html">Terminological
              Databases</ref> is done, but prose not written yet.</p>
          <p><label>TS</label> Laurent Romary reports that a member of
          his research group (Mathieu Quignard) had made some
          proposals for extension of the chapter on <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/TS.html">Transcriptions of
              Speech</ref>.</p>
          <p><label>DI</label> Laurent Romary is still working on
          revising the   chapter om <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/DI.html">Print
              Dictionaries</ref>.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_15">
          <head>Edward Vanhoutte</head>
          <p><label>PR</label> Edward Vanhoutte suggests that as the chapter <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/PR.html">Base Tag Set for
              Prose</ref> had been dropped <!--(as was hinted at in <xref url="../Drafts/edw81.xml">P5 today: current state of
              play</xref>), --> a sentence should be added to a paragraph
            in <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/ST.html">Structure of the
              TEI Document Type Definition</ref> describing how
            the Guidelines can be used for prose. Furthermore, this
            sentence should be indexed under <q>prose</q>.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_16">
          <head>John Walsh &amp; Natasha Smith on HD, SH, and CO</head>
          <p><label>CO</label> The editors particularly request that
            John Walsh &amp; Natasha Smith consider ways of
          restructuring the material now thrown
          together in the chapter <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/CO.html">Elements Available in All
              TEI Documents</ref>, as this chapter
            is getting unmanageably large.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_17">
          <head>James Cummings &amp; PW</head>
          <p>James Cummings &amp; Perry Willett report that their
            current impressions are that: <list type="simple">
              <label>DR</label>
              <item><ref target="../P5/Guidelines/DR.html">Base Tag Set
                  for Drama</ref> probably will be unchanged</item>
              <label>ND</label>
              <item><ref target="../P5/Guidelines/ND.html">Names and
                  Dates</ref> may need a lot of work; Council suggested
                that the Ontologies SIG may be a useful source of
                input</item></list> It was noted that much of the work
            likely to be needed for ND ties in with task Julia
            Flanders &amp; Perry Willett are charged with, above. Also
            classes need attention in this area.</p>
          <p>SG does not need to be reviewed at this time, but is
          still in need of expansion.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_18">
          <head>Christian Wittern</head>
          <p><label>DI</label> Christian Wittern has deferred his
            review of the <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/DI.html">Print
              Dictionaries</ref> chapter, pending Laurent Romary's
            work on it.</p>
          <p><label>DS &amp; AI</label> Christian Wittern reports he
            has made notes on the <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/DS.html">Default Text
              Structure</ref> and <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/AI.html">Simple Analytic
              Mechanisms</ref> chapters, and will write them up and
            post to the council list soon.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_19">
          <head>Julia Flanders</head>
          <p><label>CE</label> Julia Flanders believes that the chapter <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/CE.html">Certainty and
              Responsibility</ref> has some areas of
            underspecification or ambiguity that need attention, and
            that the chapter provides insufficient capability compared
            to overhead needed. She plans to do further research into
            whether the appropriate solution is to abandon the attempt
            or put the effort into doing it right. Council discussed
            the fact that this somewhat experimental chapter may in
            fact be utterly unused. Research into whether or not
            anyone is using it (or would like to use an improved
            version) seems worthwhile.</p>
          <p><label>VE</label> Julia Flanders's initial
            recommendation for the chapter <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/VE.html">Base Tag Set for
              Verse</ref> is that Council consider ditching numbered
            <gi>lg</gi>s. Most, if not all, members thought this was a
            good idea. The editors are interested in what else can or
            should be done in this chapter — should rhymes be
            encoded more explicitly; are there other useful constructs
            that should be marked up; more examples are always good.
          </p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_20">
          <head>Alejandro Bia</head>
          <p><label>CH</label> Alejandro Bia reports that the new
            <ref target="../P5/Guidelines/CH.html">Languages and
              Character Sets</ref> chapter is excellent. The chapter
            has lots of typos &amp; mistakes, and thus Alejandro Bia
            has lots of corrections which he will send to <ref target="mailto:editors@tei-c.org">the editors</ref>. The
            language that explains how to use ISO 3066 tags needs
            improvement; in particular the fact that 2-letter codes
            are preferred over 3-letter codes when available is not
            mentioned.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_21">
        <head><gi>biblItem</gi></head>
        <p>Perry Willett, Syd Bauman, and Lou Burnard reported that a
        small 
group of (2 or 3) individuals have formed <ref target="http://xml-biblio.sourceforge.net/">xml-biblio</ref>, 
          a Sourceforge project expressly to investigate use of TEI
          for bibliographies. It is not clear whether any members
          of this group are bibliographers, cataloguers, or have any particular
          librarian expertise. The group suggested that
          <gi>biblStruct</gi> be altered to remove <gi>monogr</gi>,
          <gi>analytic</gi>, and <gi>series</gi> and to permit
        self-nesting structures rather than the traditionally flat
        bibliographic structure <!--(a
          suggestion that was made by Council, actually)--> They also propose a
          few extra attributes with which to encode the relationship
          between nested entries. They propose that the various
          bibliographic child elements be permitted in any order, but
          that no PCDATA be allowed. Syd Bauman pointed out that it
          could no longer be called <gi>biblStruct</gi>, as it was no
          longer rigidly structured, and so the new element was named
          <gi>biblItem</gi>.</p>
        <p>The group has developed an <ref target="http://xml-biblio.sourceforge.net/examples_ver.4.xml">examples 
            file</ref><note place="foot">Latest version should be
            available from <ref target="http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/xml-biblio/xml-biblio/example_files/"/>.</note> 
          from the <title>Chicago Manual of Style</title> examples.
        While Syd Bauman has tried to improve it a little, this file still
          proves to be somewhat unhelpfully inconsistent and poorly
          encoded.</p>
        <p>The main differences between <gi>bibl</gi> and
        <gi>biblItem</gi> are the additions of attributes for
        semantically informative nesting and the removal of PCDATA. It
          was pointed out that, were some minor changes to be made to
          <gi>bibl</gi>, <gi>biblItem</gi> would not be needed. It was
        countered that the exclusion of PCDATA is an important constraint.</p>
        <p>There was overall discontent with the idea of having 4
          bibliographic citation elements. <note type="action"><label>SB</label>
            get back to BIBL using &lt;bibl&gt;, with as little
              change as possible<date>2005-07-08</date></note></p>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_22">
          <head><gi>teiHeader</gi>'s relationship to other standards</head>
          <p>John Walsh reports that he and Natasha Smith have created
            a spreadsheet with one entry for each
            header-element-in-context, and that this the list is being
            sent to catalogers at IU and UNC so that they can fill in
            the corresponding MARC &amp; DC fields for each record.
            Perhaps MODS will be added later. Council suggested that
            after the catalogers at IU and UNC have had a crack,
            perhaps others should also be consulted —
            particularly a European.</p>
          <p>They are expecting to be able to move on to next phase
          (i.e., after feedback from the cataloguers) as early as mid-June. <note type="action">
              <label>JW &amp; NS</label>
              write-up a quick report on
              the progress of the header element mapping to other
                standards project and post to council
          list <date>2005-07-01</date></note></p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_23">
          <head>physBib</head>
          <p>At Council's suggestion, Julia Flanders did contact Murray
            McGillivray, asking him to take over as chair of the
            physical bibliography workgroup; he has expressed interest
            insofar as he asked to see the PB materials, but hasn't
            gotten back to her yet.</p>
          <p>It was noted that Anne Mette
            Hansen has finished defending her dissertation, and thus
            may now have more time to devote to this WG. Julia
            Flanders is a little bit optimistic that a group may be
            able to be formed.</p>
          <p>Matthew Driscoll reports that Zdenek Uhlir and Jindrich
            Marek in Prague are working on a <gi>page</gi> element
            which contains the description of the page. Jindrich Marek
            recently presented a paper at a Bulgarian conference on
            this approach, which he believes is much better than that
            of <gi>msDesc</gi>.</p>
          <p>Dr Georg Vogeler has recently organized a workshop on the
          encoding of medieval charters, dealing both with the physical and
            informational content. He  presented a paper on
            this <soCalled>Charter Encoding Initiative</soCalled>
           at DRH 2004 (see <ref target="http://drh2004.ncl.ac.uk/abstract.php?abstract=215">the
          abstract</ref>), but its current status is unknown.</p>
          <p>Council was reminded that the PhysBib group has a clearly
          defined set of goals: collation &amp; page descriptions. Lots of
            other nifty things can &amp; perhaps should be done, but
            not necessarily by this group.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_24">
          <head>Roma</head>
          <p>The new version (installed a few days ago) is broken. The
            current version is working but there is an incorrect
            redirect in effect at the UVA server (now fixed). Lou Burnard updated
            Council on Roma changes.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_25">
          <head>Stone Rubbings</head>
          <p>Christian Wittern is interested in seeing TEI support
            some epigraphical encoding. Julia Flanders recommends
            speaking to Elli Mylonas, who knows both epiDoc and their
            rival.<note type="action">
              <label>CW</label>
              Look at current epigraphical standards, contact
                Elli Mylonas, report on findings to list
              <date>2005-07-01</date></note> Epigraphical
            encoding should be considered in light of what MS will be
            doing with TBOs.</p>
        </div>
        <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_26">
          <head>Changes between P4 and P5</head>
          <p>People are asking about the differences between P4 and P5
            on TEI-L. It was pointed out that several documents (P5
            publicity page, P5 mission statement, edw81, etc.) need
            updating.</p>
          <p>It was suggested that some sort of high-level summary
            would be appropriate for the present, and that a more
            detailed comparison, perhaps with some commentary on the
            advantages of P5 and suggestions on who should upgrade,
            would not be possible or appropriate until P5 is
            <soCalled>complete</soCalled>.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_27">
        <head>WG reports</head>
        <p>ISO/FS is still awaiting ballot. The chapter will use the
          <att>xml:id</att> attribute (as opposed
          to <att>id</att>). There will be a
          meeting in Warsaw in <date when="2005-08">August</date>.</p>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="tcm17div_num_28">
        <head>Council Work Procedures</head>
        <p>Discussion of audibility during conference calls —
          speak slower and more clearly; headsets &amp; mute buttons
          are our friends.</p>
        <p>In order to try to make the calls themselves shorter, we
          will try reviewing action items via e-mail the day before
          the call.</p>
        <p>Julia Flanders suggests that every report to be considered be
          accompanied by a question or items for discussion.</p>
        <p>Several council members would prefer not to need to pay for
          conference calls. <note type="action"><label>AB</label>
            investigate alternative conference call
              systems
            <date>2005-07-01</date></note></p>
        <p>Council needs to be responsible for supervising the work
          being done on the Guidelines.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
  </text></TEI>