<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2006-02"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2006-02" when="2006-02-24">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>24 February 2006</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM022</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>This electronic file is the source.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm22</change><change when="2006-02-26">Syd Bauman:  Corrections per LB's post to tei-council</change><change when="2006-02-25">Syd Bauman:  
          
            Fleshed out to rudimentary first draft status, still
            using local meet-mins.dtd.
            Converted to TEI Lite (using meet-mins2lite.xsl and
              then remove_default_attrs.xslt)
          
        </change><change when="2006-02-24">Syd Bauman:  Captured notes during conference call, using
          meet-mins.dtd.</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <body>
      <div>
        <p>All times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>Call started at 12:06 with CW, DP, SB, JW, AB, LB, SR, MD,
          CT, DB; absent were MZ, SS, LR, JC, although JC had sent
          along his apologies in advance.</p>
      </div>
      <div n="1">
        <head>Review of the minutes and action items</head>
        <list type="gloss">
          <label>JC: Review and then disseminate the P5 howto</label>
          <item>JC reported prior to the teleconference that while
            there was still room for work on this document, it had
            been reviewed and disseminated (posted to TEI-L <date when="2005-12-22">22/23 Dec</date>), and that no one had
            commented upon it.<note type="action">
            <label>LB</label>
            Ensure this document is easily accessible from P5
          portion of website
            <date>completed</date>
          </note></item>
          <label>SB: Circulate summary report on SO work-group outputs to date</label>
          <item>SB reports this was accomplished. It was
          agreed that Council members should review the current drafts
            listed in <ref target="http://www3.iath.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2005/001163.html">Syd's
              summary</ref>, and SB should revise them based on
          comments received.<note type="action">
              <label>All</label>
              Review <ref target="http://www3.iath.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2005/001163.html">SO
          Outputs</ref>
              <date>2006-03-11</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>LB: to update the Activities web-page</label>
          <item>LB reports he has updated this page as much as he can</item>
          <label>CW, LB: Draft charge for personography activity, including deadlines and workplan</label>
          <item>Done</item>
          <label>CT: Initiate and facilitate production of note on
            Page Image Management; report on progress to next Council
            meeting</label>
          <item>CT (&amp; DP) report that work is progressing; see
          <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org.uk/wiki/index.php/FacsimileMarkup"/>. CT reports that after
          some discussion and consideration he concluded that this
            activity would be best situated as one of the <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/SIG/Manuscript/index.xml?style=printable">Manuscript
          SIG</ref>'s activities, rather than creating a new SIG.
            <note type="action">
              <label>CT or DP</label>
              post to TEI-MS-SIG or TEI-L requesting input
              <date>2006-03-12</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>LB: Ensure that ST corrections are completed</label>
          <item>LB reports this item completed</item>
          <label>SB: organize a proposal on how best to prosecute the class struggle</label>
          <item>SB reports that while this item was completed (i.e., a
            <ref target="http://www3.iath.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2005/001164.html">proposal 
              was posted</ref>), neither he nor anyone else followed
            up appropriately on the proposal, and thus the class
            struggle has stagnated. It was agreed to follow LB's
          counter-proposal, using e-mail on the entire Council list.
          It was further agreed that rather than processing modules in
          some sequential order, each member of Council will be
          assigned some modules for which to propose what the class
            structure should be. This process needs to be undertaken
          quite soon.
            <note type="action">
              <label>CW w/ LB's help</label>
              create list of modules needing
                <soCalled>class</soCalled> attention
              <date>2006-03-04</date>
            </note><note type="action">
              <label>CW</label>
              assign modules to Council members
              <date>2006-03-11</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>CW: Investigate options for holding council
            meeting/TEI training meeting in Kyoto, reporting back by
            next call</label>
          <item>Done, discussion later on the agenda</item>
          <label>SB/SS/NS: Report back from TEI Libraries meeting at
            next TEI Council call</label>
          <item>SB reported that the meeting went well. The DLF goals
            were to revamp the <ref target="http://www.diglib.org/standards/tei.htm">TEI in
              Libraries</ref> document, and begin the process of
            creating a <soCalled>vendor DTD</soCalled> or
            <soCalled>TEI Tight</soCalled> which could be used for
            submitting texts to vendors for capture by those
            institutions without the resources to create such a schema
            on their own â€” this is the same schema that TEI
            would like to use when aggregating requests for
            digitization as a member benefit. The TEI goals were to
            ensure that the results of the DLF process were freely
            available to TEI users, to encourage participants to
            consider P5, to ensure that the P4 schemas produced were
            not egregiously problematic for upgrading to P5, and to
            solicit librarian input on P5.
            <note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              post a pointer to the minutes of this meeting
              <date>as soon as the minutes are available</date>
            </note>
          </item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div n="2">
        <head>Review of WG etc. progress</head>
        <div n="2.1">
          <head>PB</head>
          <note>MM = Murray McGillivray</note>
          <p>SB reports that MM has posted some documents with some
            suggested sample encodings of collation formulae to the PB
            list, and that JF has commented on them, but no one else
            has. LB has put the documents on the website off the <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/PB/index.xml?style=printable">Physical 
              Bibliography Work Group</ref> page, under the headings
            <q>Manuscript example</q> and <q>Print example</q>. LB
            says that progress is being made, Council members should
            read &amp; comment.</p>
        </div>
        <div n="2.2">
          <head>personography</head>
          <p>MD reports that the preliminary report by the graduate
            student Eva Wedervang-Jensen, whom TEI paid to research
            other biographic XML schemes, has been put on the web at
          <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/PERS/persw02.xml?style=printable"/>. 
            Eva looked at ~10 systems for biographical data in XML
            (the list is in the document). MD notes that, because it
            started life as an MS Word document which was later
            hand-converted to TEI, it has some significant formatting
            problems which he hopes to iron out soon; however, he does
            not want to post it to TEI-L until these formatting
            problems have been fixed.</p>
          <p>The plan is to have a face-to-face meeting about this,
            hopefully soon. The exact reason for and makeup of this
            meeting was discussed. The intent would be to gather some
            non-TEI folks who are practiced in this field, to solicit
            their opinions on our proposed scheme, in particular
            whether or not they would use it. We are looking for
            anxious implementors of this scheme.</p>
          <p>Council members should send names of individuals who
            should be involved in the personography face-to-face to
            the council list or directly to MD. End of March a
            possibility for this meeting. <!--note resp="SB" place="inline">I have the sentence <q>CT or LB to send
                JG name to MD.</q> in my notes, but I have no idea
              what it means. HELP??</note--></p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="3">
        <head>P5</head>
        <p>The newest pre-release alpha-test snapshot of P5, whose
          Sourceforge number is <q>0.3.1</q>, was released 2006-01-30.
          This is a significant improvement over the previous
          snapshot. LB apologized to Council for not having a written
          progress report prepared ahead of the conference call, but
          promised to have one ready for inclusion in these minutes,
          which he promptly did. For details see the <ref target="../release/doc/tei-p5-doc/readme-0.3.1.html">release
            notes</ref>.</p>
        <p>It was suggested that the newest snapshot should be
        included with oXygen.<note type="action">
            <label>SB</label>
            bundle up 0.3.1 for oXygen
            <date>2006-03-18</date>
          </note>
        </p>
        <p>A revision of the TEI Lite tutorial, making it conformant
          with TEI P5, was also undertaken. A preliminary draft of
          this revision was circulated to Council mid February, and
          also to TEI-L. Major differences are summarised in <ref target="#appndx"/>.</p>
      </div>
      <div n="4">
        <head>Meetings</head>
          <p>Next conference call is tentatively scheduled for <time when="2006-04-25T12:00:00Z">Tue 25 Apr @ 12:00 UTC</time>.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Miscellanea</head>
          <p>LB &amp; SB suggest that the <soCalled>Class
              Struggle</soCalled> is currently high priority.</p>
          <p>Council members reviewing documents should post their
            thoughts about the document reviewed, even if it is
            nothing more than <q>It's OK</q>.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>Meeting ended ~13:30.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div xml:id="appndx" n="1" type="appendix">
        <head>Changes to TEI Lite (P5 version)</head>
        <list type="ordered">
          <item>The element <gi>expan</gi> wasn't previously
            available. I have added it to complement <gi>abbr</gi> and
            revised the discussion of how abbreviation should be
            handled, in line with the revisions for <gi>corr</gi>,
            <gi>reg</gi>, <gi>orig</gi>, <gi>sic</gi> etc. (and
            introduced <gi>choice</gi>, obviously).</item>
          <item>The <gi>series</gi> element, although listed as
            available in U5, isn't actually present in any version of
            the teilite dtd since 2004. I've removed discussion of
            it.</item>
          <item>The elements <gi>gi</gi>, <gi>code</gi>,
            <gi>ident</gi>, <gi>kw</gi> were previously added as
            extensions; all but the last are available from the
            tagdocs module, so I've taken them from there now, adding
            <gi>att</gi>  and <gi>val</gi>  (but not <gi>tag</gi>) for
            good measure.  <gi>kw</gi> is gone. </item>
          <item>I added <gi>teiCorpus</gi>: it has always been
            discussed in U5, but not actually included in the DTD for
            no very good reason.</item>
          <item>Numbered  divs are removed. This required a rather
            unpleasant manual hack of the ODD which  should only be
            regarded as provisional.</item>
          <item>The discussion of linking and pointers was revised in
            line with the new P5 regime.</item>
          <item>The  discussion of figures and graphics was also
            revised in line with how it is now presented in P5, and
            the elements <gi>graphic</gi> and <gi>binaryObject</gi>
            added.</item>
          <item>The  discussion of character entities has been
            removed</item>
        </list>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text></TEI>