<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2006-05"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2006-05" from="2006-05-18" to="2006-05-19">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Kyoto</placeName>, <date>18–19 May 2006</date></meeting><author>Matt Zimmerman</author></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM024</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>This electronic file is the source.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm24</change><change when="2006-06-15">Matt Zimmerman:  Changed typos from original posting</change><change when="2006-06-11">Syd Bauman:  Changed path to CSS stylesheet; added appendix per
	request MZ; fixed date in title, above</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Times are UTC +9 unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>The meetings were held on 18 and 19 May, 2006 at the Kyoto City International Community
          House, Kyoto Japan. The meetings were held from 10:00 to 17:00. Present were CT, CW, SB, AK, DP, JC, JW, LB, MZ, MD, SS, DB, SR, LR</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
        <head>Approval of Agenda</head>
        <p>CW's agenda for the meeting was unanimously approved with no additions or subtractions</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Welcome Amit</head>
        <p>The Council welcomes its newest member, Amit Kumar, who will serve out the rest of the
          term of Alex Bia who resigned from the Council.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Review of minutes from last conference call</head>
        
        <list>
           <item>Resolve remaining unresolved issues about new file organization at Sourceforge asap, and report on status at Kyoto Council meeting.
            <note type="action"><rs>JC</rs>Update HOWTO to reflect the new structure and check that the discussion of SVN procedures introduced in it are all correct</note>
           </item>
           <item>Discussed structure of internationalization file structure <rs>LB</rs> suggests testing ODD tools so that linking works as opposed to copying. <rs>CW</rs> says basic structure should include how to handle examples in different languages.
            <rs>SS</rs> asks did we not once ask people for examples?
            <rs>CW</rs> says someone will have to be in charge of handling the call and collecting examples.
            <rs>SS</rs> suggest that if we collect samples we need metadata (form similar to
             the TEI projects page)</item>
          
          <item>Should chapter file names change? (i.e. hd &gt; header). Consensus is "no".
          <note type="action"><rs>JC</rs>suggest new file names.</note></item>
          
          <item><rs>SB</rs> updated his <ref target="http://www3.iath.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2005/001163.html">report on SO output documents</ref> to include recommended dispositionsas a working paper for discussion in Kyoto. Recommendation is SVG should be used instead of graphic and figure.
          <rs>CW</rs> and <rs>DP</rs> suggest that graphic element stays and that SVG
            exists in the module for figuers and tables.
          Do we dicuss this in the guidelines and where do we discuss it?. Should part of the
            guidelines be dedicated to other lanaguges? (markup and standards).
          <rs>CT</rs> suggests a new pointing method that includes coordinate pointing.
          <note type="action"><rs>CT and DP</rs>Come up with a proposed text of how to link
            texts and images</note>
          <note type="action"><rs>SB</rs>See if an similar xpointer has been provided in W3C</note></item>
          <item><note type="action"><rs>Council must read chapt 14.9.1 p5.</rs></note></item>
          <item><note type="action"><rs>CW</rs> follow-up on previous request to MM for more prose describing the desired goals, the meaning of elements, the intended usage, etc.; also perhaps suggest a conference call for PB group. (MM does not have anything prepared for us to review)</note></item>
          <item><note type="action"><rs>JW and MZ</rs>Look at both dictionaries drama modules, post to list</note></item>
          <item><note type="action"><rs>DB</rs> Look at TD (documentation elements, aka
            ‘tagdocs’), post to list.</note></item>
        </list>
      </div>
      
      
      
      <div>
        <head>Working Groups Progress</head>
        <p>Physical Bibliogrpahy: has not been any changes in documents</p>
        <p>Personograibphy: MD reports 8 new elements, 3 catagories and use of exisiting tei elements also.
        <ref target="http://www.staff.hum.ku.dk/mjd/persPaper.html">See report</ref></p>
        <p><rs>CT</rs> comments that type "casual" is not clear enough in the assert group (a to b? b to a?).
        Assert and Assertgrp? is one redundant? 
        <note type="action"><rs>LB</rs> motions that the Council identify within a week a
          list of specific items in the current proposals that need to be addressed.</note> </p>
      </div>
      
      <div>
        <head>Class Struggle</head>
        <list>
        <item>Linking and Analysis: get rid of exemplumb, remarks and listRef? Why is attDef not attSpec?
        <note type="action"><rs>SB</rs> fix listref from ptr* to ptr+</note></item>
        
        <item>dateStruct: necessary? can we have only date?
        <note type="action"><rs>SB</rs>merge date and dateStruct.
          Same with timestruct?</note></item>
        
        <item>Should day, geog, hour, minute, mont, second, week and hear be macro.phraseSeq instead of macro.xtext?
          <note type="action"><rs>LB</rs>Solution: macro.xtext doesn't cut it. Needs to be
            reviewed. What, if anything, should replace it?</note>
        </item>
        
        <item>Should region, country, be macro.phraseSeq instead of marcro.paracontent (bloc and settlement are macrophrasesec)?
          Yes. No objections
          <note type="action"><rs>SB</rs>Change region, country to macro.phraseSeq instead of marcro.paracontent</note></item>
        
        <item>model.phrase (scaled down phrase set) posted to council list
          <note type="action"><rs>LB</rs>Add model.phrase to TCW07</note>
        </item>
          </list>
      </div>
      
      <div>
        <head>Review TCW07</head>
      <p>Corpus:
      <note type="action"><rs>Editoris</rs>Improve wording. Where does the personagrapy stuff go?</note>
        Should there be a disticnct module for the new elements in personagraphy? If yes, how does
        it affect other modules? LB proposes persongraphy stays in limbo for the time being. make a new module, or put in another module.
      Vote: 10-4 in favor of putting personography into names and dates. Editors will do it.
          <note type="action"><rs>Editors</rs>Fix manuscript desc modules dependices on names and dates in current architecture</note>
        <note type="action"><rs>Editors</rs>see if there are other interdependicies</note>
           <note type="action"><rs>SR</rs>see if there is a way to implement moral dependencies.</note>
            <note type="action"><rs>SB</rs>find out places were an element is place like and datalike.</note>
        textDescPart will be defined as a new class
        <note type="action"><rs>Editors</rs>Make a new class model.setting part contain
          model.pLike ... -rs </note>
      </p>
        
      <p> Gaji, Figures, tables, graphs, and nets: All approved.</p>
      
        <p>Spoken:
        <list>
          <item>Should event kinesic get att.typed? <rs>Yes</rs></item>
          <item><note type="action"><rs>Editors</rs>make a new class whose only member is desc
            that would replace some of thee occurences of  macro.glassSeq.</note></item>
          <item>item 6.4 of TCW07 approved</item>
        </list>
        </p>
        
        
        <p>Manuscript Desc:
        <list>
          <item>In response to 7.1 of TWC07: 'use the headphrase'</item>
          <item>In reponse to 7.2 of TWC07: msidentifier and misidentifierPart -- Leave this as they are
            a model class. Would be preferable if it would be non-repeatable.</item>
          <item>In response to 7.3 of TWC07: Bullet 1: yes, Bullet 2: yes, Bullet 3: no.</item>
        </list>
          </p>
        
        
        <p>Transcription:</p>
        <p>
          Syd's proposal: While I don't like how att.spanning works (mostly because it is not
          "horse-like" enough), I agree completely that <gi>addSpan</gi> and <gi>delSpan</gi> belong
          in that class. I like Dot and Susan's third suggestion: hand, type, status in new class
          att.subEditStuff of which all 4 are members; place in new class att.placement of which
          <gi>add</gi> and <gi>addSpan</gi> are members (and can <gi>note</gi>be a member of this
          class, too?); and <gi>addSpan</gi> and <gi>delSpan</gi> get added to the already existing att.spanning.)</p>
         <p>The council accepted Syd's proposal</p>
        
        <p>Linking: Done</p>
        
        <p>Linking and Analysis
          <list><item>10.1 from TCW07: done</item>
            <item>10.2 from TCW07: w and m solutions</item>
            <item>defer discussion of last item before we have output from standoff</item>
           <item><note type="action"><rs>DP</rs> to contact the overlap group and give them a report and get
             feedback on span</note></item>
          </list> 
        </p>
        
        <p><rs>Other</rs>
          
          <note type="action"><rs>JW</rs> should discuss biblitem, biblstruc, and mods by end of
            June</note>
          <note type="action"><rs>DB</rs> to draft document of guiding principles for further
            dev of p5.</note>
        </p>
      </div>
      
      <div>
        <head>Roadmap</head>
      <p> 1.0 by members meeting oct 27 and 28. <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Council/roadmap.xml">Roadmap</ref>
	  Summary of brainstorm of items needed before release is
      appended, below.
        <note type="action"><rs>LB</rs>by end of June, report on Terminology Chapter</note>
        <note type="action"><rs>LB</rs>Replace the current TEI core module with smaller cores</note>
        Next call July 25 UTC 12:00
      </p>
        </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div type="appendix">
	<head>Possible Requirements for 1.0 Release</head>
	<p><eg>essential = E
desired = D
nice = N
foolish = F

E	chapter review, including reivew of examples
E	decision on module dependency architecture made, and if yes implemented
E	remove instructions on how to invoke TEI DTD from each chapter
E	New user needs to have an easy way to generate customization ODD and generate schemas
E	text of prose matches specs
E	*Specs frozen! :-)
E	Dictionary rewrite completed
*	Modification 
*	Conformance
D	resolve all feature requests
D	inserting missing examples
D	phys bib
D	prosopography
D	Text Critical rewrite completed
N	cookbook
N	desktop java-based Roma
N	mechanism for an instance indicating the schema(s) to which it should conform
N	P4 to P5 migration report
N	P4 to P5 migration tool
N	PDF version of Guidelines
N	PDF version of reference doc (of customization)
N	Terminology rewrite completed
F

Desirables for our future lives
D	break up the core in a backward compatable kinda way</eg></p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text></TEI>