<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2007-08"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2007-08" when="2007-08-02">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>2 August 2007</date></meeting><author>James Cummings</author></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM033</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>Notes taken directly into TEI XML</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm34</change><change when="2023">Temp header</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Friday
          31 August at 12:00 UTC.</p>
        <p><label>Participants:</label> Arianna Ciula (AC), Syd Bauman
          (SB), Tone Merete Bruvik (TMB), Lou Burnard (LB), James
          Cummings (Minutes;JC), Dan O'Donnell (DO), Sebastian Rahtz
          (SR), Laurent Romary (LR), Conal Tuohy (CT), and Christian
          Wittern (Chair;CW).</p>
        <p>Council members unable to participate: David Birnbaum (DB),
          Matthew Driscoll (MD), Dot Porter (DP), and John Walsh (JW).
        </p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
        <head>Open action items</head>
        <p>CW reviewed the action items from the previous minutes.
            <list type="gloss">
            <label><hi>LB</hi> Implement Board decision with regard to
              title page. 2007-08-15</label>
            <item> LB reports that SB seems to have done this already</item>

            <label><hi>LB</hi> Integrate list of workgroups and
              members into Guidelines. 2007-09-01 </label>
            <item> LB reports that he has not yet done this, that he
              started but got distracted. <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Integrate list of workgroups and
                members into Guidelines. <date>2007-09-07</date>
              </note>
            </item>

            <label><hi>SB</hi> Integrate &lt;postscript&gt;
              ODD into Guidelines. 2007-08-04 </label>
            <item>SB reported that this had been done.</item>


            <label><hi>LB/JW</hi> Integrate revised rendition
              recommendations into Guidelines. 2007-09-01 </label>
            <item> Discussion of rendition was delayed in case JW
              joined later. LB commented that the action had been
	      approved at the previous meeting but had
              not yet been completed. <note type="action">
                <label>LB/JW</label> Integrate revised rendition
                recommendations into Guidelines.
                <date>2007-09-14</date>
              </note>
            </item>


            <label><hi>CT</hi> Re-implement the earlier facsimile
              examples in most recent proposal. 2007-08-15 </label>
            <item> CT reported on the facsimile work, and that the
              earlier example had been abandoned in favour of new ones
              LB had produced. </item>


            <label><hi>LB, CT, DP</hi> Produce P5 1.0 Draft of
              facsimile markup based on Council discussion and
              integrate with Guidelines. 2007-09-01 </label>
            <item> This action had been completed and CT and LB
              reported on new draft. SR's example was discussed, but
              LB and CT disagree about the nature of what a
              &lt;surface&gt; is and whether it should be
              renamed. SB and AC summarised their understanding of the
              relationship between physical object, and the
              corresponding facsimile elements. There was some
              discussion on the problems encountered if
              &lt;surface&gt; refers to the physical object,
              and CT was tasked with proposing changes with examples
              to the council list by 2007-09-14. SR confirmed that
              Council was satisfied with the rest of the proposal and
              especially its indirection in linking. <note type="action">
                <label>CT</label> Produce workable examples and
                proposals for change to facsimile markup (with regard
                to the meaning of surface and its children).
                  <date>2007-09-14</date>
              </note>
              <note>DO arrived at this point.</note>
            </item>

              
              <label><hi>DB, TMB, SB, LB</hi> Rewrite NH chapter as
              needed. 2007-09-01 </label>
            <item>SB and TMB reported that this action item was almost
              completed, but needed a bit more work. <note type="action">
                <label>DB, TMB, SB, LB</label> Revise NH chapter.
                  <date>2007-09-07</date>
              </note>
            </item>


            <label><hi>Eds</hi> Editors to integrate final Dictionary
              revisions into Guidelines, checking language, etc.
              2007-09-01 </label>
            <item> LB and SB reported that they believed this has
              already been done; SPQR was currently reviewing the chapter. </item>


            <label><hi>LB</hi> Report back to council on any changes
              to FSD/FS and if necessary rationalise the TEI version.
              2007-09-01 </label>
            <item>LB has not yet received minutes of the ISO meeting.
              LR reported that they wanted to reintroduce 3 or 4
              elements which had been in TEI P4 but which had since
              been removed in TEI P5. LB is happy to make the changes
              as soon as we are notified about them. Council agreed
              that this is a special case which should change in order
              to keep in step with the ISO work. <note type="action">
                <label>LB </label> Report back to council on any
                changes to FSD/FS and if necessary rationalise the TEI
                version. <date>2007-09-14</date></note>
            </item>


            <label><hi>DO</hi> Produce revised proposal about what to
              do with add/del/supplied/edInt/etc. issues 2007-08-21 </label>
            <item> DO reported that this had been completed, but no
              ODD produced. DO summarised some of the issues but
              promised to produce an ODD by 2007-09-07. LB reminded DO
              that work had been done on this chapter in the meantime
              and to make sure that the latest version was used. <note type="action">
                <label>DO </label> Produce an ODD for
                add/del/supplied/etc. proposals with regard to latest
                modifications of PH/CO chapters. Reporting to Council
                list. <date>2007-09-07</date>
              </note>
            </item>


            <label><hi>ALL</hi> Comment on revised add/del/supplied
              draft on Council mailing list. 2007-08-25</label>
            <item> This item is moved forward until after DO produces
              his ODD. <note type="action">
                <label>ALL</label> Comment on revised add/del/supplied
                proposals on Council mailing list.
                <date>2007-09-14</date>
              </note>
            </item>


            <label><hi>LB</hi> Integrate add/del/supplied revisions
              (after Council input) to the Guidelines 2007-09-01 </label>
            <item> This item is moved forward until council comments
              on DO's ODD. <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Integrate any agreed
                add/del/supplied revisions (after Council input) to
                the Guidelines. <date>2007-09-20</date>
              </note>
            </item>


            <label><hi>JC, DP</hi> Report back to council on progress
              of formatting of the Guidelines so far and any
              outstanding issues 2007-08-06 </label>
            <item>JC reported that this action had been completed.</item>


            <label><hi>JC, DP</hi> All issues should be resolved
              and/or reported to Sebastian and/or Council 2007-09-07.</label>
            <item>JC reported that this ongoing item was in hand and a
              lot of work was being done behind the scenes. SR whetted
              Council's appetite by mentioning that navigation had
	      been completely revised in the last couple days.
This item is not due yet and is in progress.
                  <note type="action">
                  <label>JC, DP</label>All issues should be resolved
                  and/or reported to Sebastian and/or Council.
                    <date>2007-09-07</date>
                </note> Discussion at this point was diverted into
                what to do about specGrpRef and similar elements and
                their rendition in the Guidelines. Many opinions were
                expressed, but JC volunteered to post an initial
                summary of his perception of the problem to the
                Council list to kick-start discussion. It was agreed
                in any case that the Editors should remove the prose
                leading up to such elements and that if this was to be
                added it should be done in the processing. <note type="action">
                  <label>JC</label> Post a message summarising his
                  objections to the way &lt;specGrp&gt; and
                  &lt;specGrpRef&gt; elements are handled to
                  Council list. <date>2007-09-01</date>
                </note>
                <note type="action">
                  <label>ALL</label> Discuss what should be done about
                  &lt;specGrp&gt; and
                  &lt;specGrpRef&gt; elements.
                  <date>2007-09-07</date>
                </note>
                <note type="action">
                  <label>EDs</label> Remove all leading prose before
                  &lt;specGrp&gt; and
                  &lt;specGrpRef&gt; elements.
                  <date>2007-09-14</date>
                </note>
                <note type="action">
                  <label>SR</label> Modify XSLT in response to Council
                  decisions concerning &lt;specGrp&gt; and
                  &lt;specGrpRef&gt; elements and/or Council. 
                    <date>2007-09-14</date>
                </note>
              </item>
              <label><hi>DO, SB</hi> Produce revised proposal about
                what to do with app/rdg issues 2007-08-21 </label>
              <item>DO summarised his work on this, but worried it
                might significantly break things. He promises to
                produce a revised proposal and ODD by 2007-09-14, and
                post to Council list. <note type="action">
                  <label>DO, SB</label> Produce revised proposal/ODD
                  about what to do with app/rdg issues and post to
                  Council list. <date>2007-09-14</date>
                </note>
              </item>
              <label><hi>ALL</hi> Comment on revised app/rdg draft on
                Council mailing list. 2007-08-25 </label>
              <item> This item is moved forward. <note type="action">
                  <label>ALL</label> Comment on revised app/rdg draft
                  on Council mailing list. <date>2007-09-21</date>
                </note>
              </item>
              <label><hi>SB</hi> Integrate revisions (after Council
                input) to the Guidelines 2007-09-01</label>
              <item>This item is moved forward. <note type="action">
                  <label>SB</label> Integrate revisions to app/rdg
                  (after Council input) to the Guidelines.
                    <date>2007-09-28</date>
                </note>
              </item>
              <label><hi>LB</hi> Integrate changes necessary for a
                working implementation for modelling of manuscript
                stemmata, as proposed on council list. 2007-09-01 </label>
              <item> LB reports that this is not been done yet, but he
                will do so soon and the changes are straightforward.
                  <note type="action">
                  <label>LB</label> Integrate changes necessary for a
                  working implementation for modelling of manuscript
                  stemmata, as proposed on council list.
                    <date>2007-09-07</date></note>
              </item>
              <label><hi>LB</hi> Implement rationalisation of
                handDesc/handList/hand, removing handNote 2007-08-08</label>
              <item>LB reports that this has been done.</item>
              <label><hi>ALL</hi> Review chapters and correct mistakes
                as per http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/wiki/Review
                from 2007-08-04 until 2007-09-07 </label>
              <item> This action is ongoing and is discussed in more
                detail in the following section.
              <note type="action">
                <label>ALL</label> Review chapters and correct
                mistakes as per
                http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/wiki/Review
                  <date>2007-09-07</date>
              </note>
            </item>


            <label><hi>All</hi> Any new significant technical
              revisions not already under consideration by Council
              should be added to trac for P5 1.1 to keep track of
              these ideas as they occur to us in P5 1.0 revisions.
              ongoing </label>
            <item>This is an ongoing item. <note type="action">
                <label>All</label> Add new significant technical
                revisions to trac for P5 1.1 to keep track of
                these ideas as they occur to Council during in P5 1.0
                revisions.
                http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/milestone/P5%201.1.
              <date>Ongoing</date>
              </note>
            </item>
          </list>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Chapter Triage</head>
        <p>CW asked each Council member present to report on how their
          chapter reviews were going. In general these are well in
          hand. Various Council members raised a number of issues.
            <table rend="wiki">
            <row>
              <cell>
                <hi>Who</hi>
              </cell>
              <cell> # </cell>
              <cell>
                <hi>Title</hi>
              </cell>
              <cell>
                <hi>Comments</hi>
              </cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>AC</cell>
              <cell>15</cell>
              <cell>Critical Apparatus</cell>
              <cell>Done </cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>AC</cell>
              <cell>9</cell>
              <cell>Manuscript Description</cell>
              <cell>Review ongoing </cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>CW</cell>
              <cell>2</cell>
              <cell> The TEI Header </cell>
              <cell>Done</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>CW</cell>
              <cell>20</cell>
              <cell> Representation of non-standard characters and
                glyphs</cell>
              <cell>Some revision needed; Review ongoing</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>CT</cell>
              <cell>14</cell>
              <cell> Transcription of Primary Sources</cell>
              <cell> Review ongoing, will reread LB's new
              changes</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>DO</cell>
              <cell>1</cell>
              <cell> The TEI infrastructure </cell>
              <cell>Done</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>Dan</cell>
              <cell>13</cell>
              <cell> Certainty and Responsibility</cell>
              <cell>Done, concerns included discussion on values for
                @cert </cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>DB</cell>
              <cell>16</cell>
              <cell> Names, Dates, People, and Places</cell>
              <cell>Not present</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>DB</cell>
              <cell>18</cell>
              <cell> Tables, Formulae, and Graphics</cell>
              <cell>Not present</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>DP</cell>
              <cell>3</cell>
              <cell> Elements Available in All TEI Documents</cell>
              <cell>Not present</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>JC</cell>
              <cell>4</cell>
              <cell> Default Text Structure </cell>
              <cell>Review ongoing</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>JC</cell>
              <cell>7</cell>
              <cell> Transcriptions of Speech </cell>
              <cell>Done, only minor changes </cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>JW</cell>
              <cell>10</cell>
              <cell> Linking, Segmentation, and Alignment</cell>
              <cell>Not present</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>JW</cell>
              <cell>11</cell>
              <cell> Simple Analytic Mechanisms</cell>
              <cell>Not present</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>LR</cell>
              <cell>12</cell>
              <cell> Feature Structures</cell>
              <cell> Review ongoing</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>LR</cell>
              <cell>21</cell>
              <cell> Feature System Declaration</cell>
              <cell> Review ongoing</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>LR</cell>
              <cell>23</cell>
              <cell> Using The TEI (IM, CF, MD, DT) </cell>
              <cell> Done, message posted to Council list expressing
                some concerns about what it means to be a 'clean'
                modification</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>LR</cell>
              <cell>22</cell>
              <cell> Documentation Elements </cell>
              <cell> Review ongoing</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>MD</cell>
              <cell>17</cell>
              <cell> Graphs, Networks, and Trees</cell>
              <cell> Not present</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>MD</cell>
              <cell>19</cell>
              <cell> Language Corpora </cell>
              <cell> Not present</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell> SR </cell>
              <cell>23</cell>
              <cell> Using the TEI (NH)</cell>
              <cell> Awaiting revised version</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell> SR</cell>
              <cell>8</cell>
              <cell> Dictionaries</cell>
              <cell> Review ongoing</cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>TMB</cell>
              <cell>5</cell>
              <cell> Verse</cell>
              <cell> Done </cell>
            </row>
            <row>
              <cell>Tone</cell>
              <cell>6</cell>
              <cell> Performance Texts</cell>
              <cell> Done </cell>
            </row>
          </table> Some actions arose during these discussions: <note type="action">
            <label>SB</label> Check Guidelines prose and examples for
            namespaces which are not TEI, a recognised schema, or
            www.example.com (for example, www.hatstand.org).
              <date>2007-09-14</date>
          </note>
          <note type="action">
            <label>LB</label> Expand explanatory prose in USE
            concerning which elements are mandatory and how a user can
            know this. <date>2007-09-14</date>
          </note>
          <note type="action">
            <label>Eds/SR/LR</label> Consider whether
            <gi>classes</gi> should have a mode attribute.
              <date>2007-09-14</date>
          </note>
          <note type="action">
            <label>LB</label> Post to Council list a call for examples
            meeting particular requirements. <date>2007-09-21</date>
          </note>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Next Meeting</head>
        <p>The next teleconference was not scheduled. CW will put
          up a meetomatic survey to determine the best date. It will,
          however be at 12pm noon UTC. This will be:<lb/> 06:00 MDT in
          Calgary,<lb/> 07:00 CDT in Chicago,<lb/> 08:00 EDT in New
          York,<lb/> 13:00 BST in London,<lb/> 14:00 CEST in
          Paris,<lb/> 21:00 JST in Kyoto, and<lb/> Wed 18 July, 00:00
          NZST in Wellington.<lb/>
          <note type="action">
            <label>CW</label> CW to set date for next meeting using
            meetomatic, and announce. <date>2007-09-07</date>
          </note>
        </p>
      </div>
    </body>
  </text></TEI>