<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2007-07"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2007-07" when="2007-07-17">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>17 July 2007</date></meeting><author>James Cummings</author></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM032</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>Notes taken directly into TEI P4</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm32</change><change when="2007-07-17">James:  creation</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
        <front>
            <div>
                
<p>The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Friday 17 July
at 12:00 UTC.</p>
<p>Participants: Syd Bauman (SB), David Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard
(LB), Arianna Ciula (AC), James Cummings (Minutes;JC), Matthew
Driscoll (MD), Dan O'Donnel (DO), Dot Porter (DP), Laurent
Romary (LR), Conal Tuohy (CT), John Walsh (JW), and
Christian Wittern (Chair;CW).</p>
<p>Council members unable to participate: Tone Merete Bruvik (TMB),
Sebastian Rahtz (SR)</p>
            </div>
        </front>
        <body>
            <div>
<head>Open action items</head>
<p>CW reviewed the action items from the previous minutes. <list type="gloss">
        <label>LB Confirm trac #332 (witList/witDetail) is properly
        resolved.</label>
        <item>LB confirmed this had been completed.</item>
        <label>LB Confirm trac #332 (witList/witDetail) is properly resolved.
            2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>LB confirmed this had been completed.</item>
        <label>DO Circulate Board decision with regard to title page and exact
            wording to Council. 2007-06-22 </label>
        <item>DO confirmed this had been completed.</item>
        <label>Eds Implement Board decision with regard to title page. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>Eds now ready to do this. <note type="action">
<label>Eds</label> Implement Board decision with regard to title
page. <date>2007-07-20</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>CW Draft list of workgroups and their members for
        editors. 2007-08-01 </label>
        <item>CW  hadn't done this yet but it would be done for its due
            date. <note type="action">
<label>CW</label> Draft list of workgroups and their members for
editors. <date>2007-08-01</date>
            </note></item>
        <label>LB Confirm the gap in transcribed speech example and
        surrounding text has been clarified. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>LB confirmed this had been completed.</item>
        <label>SB Regularize glosses on *specs passim.2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>SB confirmed this had been completed.</item>
        <label>Eds Review current wording in light of Council's recommendation.
            2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>Both Eds confirmed this had been completed.</item>
        <label>DB Propose a revision of egXML desc and send it to
        LB. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>DB confirmed this had been completed. LB confirmed it
        had been included into the Guidelines</item>
        <label>LB Ensure errors reported by JW in VE have been
        corrected. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>LB confirmed this had been completed.</item>
        <label>LB Add discussion of PIs to CO.8.2.2. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>LB confirmed this had been completed.</item>
        <label>SB Change q to quote in MS.2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>SB confirmed this had been done.</item>
        <label>SB Finish 3066 to 4646 update.2007-07-27 </label>
        <item>SB confirmed this had been done.</item>
        <label>SB create second said proposal for q and said, post
        both. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>SB confirmed this had been done.</item>
        <label>SB move postscript to a free standing ODD. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>SB had not yet done this. <note type="action">
        <label>SB</label> move postscript to a free standing ODD.
        <date>2007-08-01</date> </note> Discussion ensued about
        whether the content model of &lt;div&gt; needed revision. LB
        believed any such work should at most be reconsidered for P5
        1.0, SB felt will post a reminder concerning the current
        &lt;div&gt; problems to council list. <note type="action">
        <label>SB</label> Post reminder of the current &lt;div&gt;
        problems to council list. <date>2007-07-20</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>SB remove wording of description of resp in prose PH.1.2 &amp;
            PH.1.3. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>SB confirmed this had been completed.</item>
        <label>MD/DB Stemma modeling using graph elements. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>Discussion of this was postponed for later in the agenda.</item>
        <label>JW Rewrite rendition recommendations and evaluate
        whether possible for P5 1.0. 2007-08-01 </label>
        <item>JW confirmed that he is on target to meet the due date
        for this action. <note type="action"> <label>JW</label>
        Rewrite rendition recommendations and evaluate whether
        possible for P5 1.0 <date>2007-08-01</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>LB Prepare the ground for changes to
        rendition/@rend/@rendRef in P5 1.1 if JW's recommendations
        cannot be included in P5 1.0. 2007-08-01 </label>
        <item>LB confirmed that he is on target to meet the due date for this
            action. <note type="action">
<label>LB</label> Prepare the ground for changes to
rendition/@rend/@rendRef in P5 1.1 if JW's recommendations are
unable to be included in P5 1.0 <date>2007-08-01</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>ALL Review work on facsimile markup
        http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/291, especially
        Comenius example, report to Council list. 2007-06-29 </label>
        <item>Some discussion of this took place and will be continued
        on the council list, with a final draft being hammered out by
        LB, CT, and DP.
<note type="action">
<label>LB, CT, DP (and ALL)</label> Discuss work on facsimile markup
on council list.<date>2007-07-24</date>
            </note>
            <note type="action">
<label>LB, CT, DP</label> Hammer out final P5 1.0 draft of facsimile
markup. <date>2007-08-01</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>SB, DP, MD Discuss merging of Corpus chapter in DS, and
        if necessary come up with concrete proposals for
        implementation (or not). 2007-06-29 </label>
        <item>SB had not yet done this. LB argued that this may not be
        necessary at all. It was suggested that one possibility is a
        change from &lt;teiCorpus&gt; to &lt;teiGroup&gt;. It was
        decided that this should be discussed on the council list once
        more. If a concrete proposal has not been received by
        2007-07-20, then it will have to wait until P5 1.1. <note type="action"> <label>SB</label> Make concrete proposal with
        regard to merging of Corpus chapter into DS or
        teiCorpus/teiGroup.  <date>2007-07-20</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>LB Implement any recommendations concerning the merging
        of Corpus into DS. 2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>LB noted that no concrete recommendations had been
        made. <note type="action"> <label>LB</label> Implement any
        council-approved recommendations concerning the merging of
        Corpus into DS.<date>2007-08-01</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>LB Revise ST to be more ODD focused and move any schema
        specific material to chapter on ODD specification. 2007-07-13
        </label>
        <item>LB confirmed that this had been completed. He also
        mentioned that lots of the schema-specific discussion had been
        moved to the IM chapter.</item>
        <label>TMB Provide concrete proposals to Council list on necessary
            reorganisation/reworking of NH. 2007-07-01 </label>
        <item>TMB was not present which hampered discussion. SB
        discussed the moving of prev/next/part attributes from SA and
        CO to NH. Most of council appeared to disagree with the moving
        of these attributes. LB commented that the chapter as a
        minimum needs a rewrite to highlight TEI ways of dealing with
        overlap. Moving of attributes was shelved for P5 1.1. <note type="action"> <label>DB, TMB, SB, LB</label> Review prose of
        NH and discuss on council list from 1 August, providing
        rewritten chapter by mid August. <date>2007-08-15</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>LR Complete final revision of Dictionary chapter and
        submit to Editors in two weeks. 2007-06-29 </label>
        <item>LR summarised all the work done and LB confirmed that he
        had also seen it. Discussion continued concerning the 3 views
        section at the end of the chapter. It was unclear whether to
        keep unchanged, revise, or discard this entirely for P5 1.1
        <note type="action"> <label>LR</label> Provide any further
        changes to Dictionary chapter in light of discussion and submit to
        Eds.<date>2007-08-1</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>Eds to integrate final Dictionary revisions into Guidelines.
            2007-07-13 </label>
        <item>The Eds noted this was pending the above item. <note type="action"> <label>Eds</label> Editors to integrate final
        Dictionary revisions into Guidelines.<date>2007-08-15</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>LB Post person/places draft, and announce its existence to TEI-L
            directing community to comment on that mailing list asap.2007-06-18 </label>
        <item>LB confirmed that he had indeed done this, but that
        reaction from the community was somewhat
        underwhelming. <note type="action"> <label>LB</label> To
        continue to encourage community feedback until
        <date>2007-07-27</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>LB Revise person/places draft with regard to TEI
        Community comment, announce final draft version on mailing
        list.2007-08-01 </label>
        <item>
            <note type="action">
<label>LB</label> Revise person/places draft with regard to TEI
Community comment, announce final draft version on mailing list.
<date>2007-08-01</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>LB Merge FSD and Feature Structures into a single
        module with other necessary revisions.2007-08-01 </label>
        <item>LB reported that although not due yet, he had started
        this. He warned that it might be difficult to keep the
        recommendations of TEI and ISO in sync given the date of ISO
        meetings. <note type="action"> <label>LB</label> Report back
        to council on any changes to FSD/FS and if necessary
        rationalise the TEI version.  <date>2007-08-15</date>
            </note>
        </item>
        <label>LB Revise add/del/supplied issues (cf trac 301,
        331)</label>
        <item>LB confirmed this had not yet been done. <note type="action"> <label>LB</label> Revise add/del/supplied
        issues (e.g.trac 301, 331) <date>2007-08-01</date></note>
        </item>
    </list>
</p>
            </div>
            <div>
<head>Reports</head>

<p><hi>Layout of the Guidelines (JC/DP)</hi> JC reported briefly
on the status of the work on the layout of the Guidelines. He and DP
had solicited contributions of formatting suggestions and created a
wiki page listing some initial suggestions. SR had solved a number of
the problems which were bugs or highly structural such as the toggling
of RNG/RNC schemas. JC had posted a message to the council list
summarising the work and timetable. <note type="action"> <label>JC,
DP</label> Report back to council on progress of formatting of the
Guidelines so far and any outstanding issues <date>2007-08-03</date>
    </note>
    <note type="action">
        <label>JC, DP</label> All issues should be resolved and/or reported to
        Sebastian and/or Council <date>2007-09-07</date>
    </note>
</p>
<p><hi>discussion of appInfo</hi> As SR was not present, JC
reported that the &lt;appInfo&gt; proposal seemed to answer all the
concerns expressed in the discussion on TEI-L. Although it is more
fixed than the original discussions agreed from Berlin, Council agreed
to support it.</p>
<p><hi>Content model of &lt;rdg&gt;</hi> DO argued that things
larger than phrases are used for textual variants. LB believes that
there are already available solutions for situations where variants
are not easily nestable or not phrase-level. DO suggests that
&lt;app&gt; should be a member of listLike. LB does not
disagree. <note type="action"> <label>DO</label> Report back to
Council with proposal for any changes to app/rdg
<date>2007-07-20</date>
    </note>
</p>
<p><hi>said proposal</hi> SB summarised the proposal, and most
of Council agreed. SB was worried about the name of the proposed aloud
attribute. Other suggestions were made, notably "explicit".  SB to
finalised it and add it to the Guidelines, consulting council by
mailing list. <note type="action"> <label>SB</label> SB to finalise
new <gi>said</gi> element and add to guidelines.
<date>2007-08-01</date>
    </note>
</p>
<p><hi>Stemma Model</hi> DB reported on the proposal for ways of
modelling textual stemmata, both within the existing TEI framework,
and possible better ways to do it. Council should review this material
and make any comments on the list by Friday. <note type="action">
<label>ALL</label> Provide comments on DB's proposals for modelling
stemmata. <date>2007-07-20</date>
    </note>
</p>
            </div>
            <div>
<head>Next Meeting</head>
<p>The next teleconference was scheduled for Thursday 2 August 2007,
12pm noon UTC.  This will be:<lb/> 06:00 MDT in Calgary,<lb/> 07:00
CDT in Chicago,<lb/> 08:00 EDT in New York,<lb/> 13:00 BST in
London,<lb/> 14:00 CEST in Paris,<lb/> 21:00 JST in Kyoto, and<lb/>
Wed 18 July, 00:00 NZST in Wellington.<lb/> This is shortly after the
major 2007-08-01 deadline for most technical revisions to be
complete. Council members should ensure that they have posted reports
concerning all action items pertaining to them by this date.</p>
<p>Failing a better solution, we will revert to using Indiana's
teleconferencing system, since much of today's meeting was inaudible
to nmany participants, for the second time.</p>
            </div>
        </body>
    </text></TEI>