<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2007-03"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2007-03" when="2007-03-19">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>19 March 2007</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM029</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>This electronic file is the source.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm29</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Meeting participants were LB, CW, SR,
          AC, CT (in part), DO, DP, MD, JC.</p>
        <p>LR  had sent apologies. </p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
<div><head>Actions from previous meeting</head>
<list type="gloss">
          <label>Outstanding actions </label>
          <item>Reports on several oustanding actions remained forthcoming,
	  and several of those actioned had been unable to join
	  the call. SR was asked to move remaining relevant points to
	  the TRAC system for monitoring. 
            <note type="action">
              <label>SR </label>move outstanding outstanding action items to TRAC
<date>2007-03-25</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>relatedItem and biblItem </label>
          <item>LB confirmed that he had discussed the issues with LR
          as requested at the last call and that a new draft, mostly
          derived from JW's work of last year, was now in place which
          removed <gi>biblItem</gi> and introduced
	  <gi>relatedItem</gi>, as reported to the list. </item>
	  <label>Text and image encoding </label>
	  <item>DP reported that she and Conal had completed the ODD
	  but not yet tested it. It was available for comment on the wiki
	  at <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org.uk/wiki/index.php/FacsimileMarkupODD"/>; after the call, CT reported that he was still working on it.</item>

          <label>Physical Bibliography </label>
          <item>The workgroup seemed to have stagnated, with no
	  further progress after recent comments from MD and DP. CW
	  had  received no response to his last mail to MgGilvray. DO
	  volunteered to also approach him informally if CW would like to
	  try again.
            <note type="action">
              <label>CW </label>write to PB WG Chair requesting an
	      update and explaining that proposals were unlikely to
	      get into P5 1.0<date>2007-03-25</date>
            </note>
	  </item>
	  <label>Testing of I18N examples in ODD </label>
	  <item>CW reported this as done</item>
	  <label>Tracking system </label>
	  <item>SR, CW, DO reported that this was now in place as
	  planned.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>Vilnius meeting</head>
	  <p>MD reported the main recommendations from the meeting,
	  as previously posted to the list. There was a need for more
	  examples still, particularly for places. The meeting had
	  decided against recommending a general "event" element. CW
	  asked what had happened to the idea of an "assert" element:
	 the group  has decided against this, particularly given the
	 global availability of <gi>note</gi>; LB noted that a better
	 way of providing the functionality proposed for
	 <gi>assert</gi> might be to enhance the existing
	 <gi>certainty</gi> mechanism. SR noted that the use of
	 elements from the dictionary module proposed for <gi>nym</gi>
	 revived the module dependency issue. LB said one possibility
	 might be simply to move discussion of nyms into the
	 dictionary chapter. It was agreed that the two proposals
	 should be publicized separately to TEI-L; council members
	 were asked to try testing the proposals.
<note type="action"><label>LB </label>
Post information about the new proposals to TEI-L to solicit
comment<date>2007-03-20</date>
</note>
<note type="action"><label>All </label>
Attempt to encode a place using the proposed tags, and report back to
Council list <date>2007-03-23</date></note>
	  </p>
</div>
<div><head>Conformance proposals</head>
<p>JC was thanked for the draft, which was generally agreed
to be on the right track. It raised several key issues which needed wider
debate than was possible on the call, and it was hoped that all
Council members would follow CT's example in posting their views on
the topic to the list as soon as possible, with a view to enabling JC
to produce a revised draft in time for discussion in Berlin. It
was agreed that the proposals were not yet ready for circulation
beyond Council.
<note type="action"><label>All </label>
Review the draft at <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Drafts/conformance-draft.pdf"/> and
comment to the Council list.
<date>2007-04-01</date></note>
<note type="action"><label>JC </label>
Produce revised  draft.
<date>2007-04-15</date></note>
</p>
</div>
<div><head>The P5 RoadMap</head> <p>There had been a rather poor
response to the call for volunteers. Council discussed a number of
ways of addressing this, and agreed that (a) the tasks to be done for
the first milestone needed to be made more specific and (b) the
allocation of individuals to tasks needed to be made centrally. SR
agreed to do the latter task, and in conjunction with LB would draft a
statement of the former. This would go beyond just "identify and fix
references to DTDs" to include identification of sections or passages
in the chapter that were either unclear or outdated. Outcomes from the
task might include creation of new tickets for more detailed action as
well as actual editing. The goal was to give council a list of new
proposed revisions/issues for triage in Berlin.  <note type="action"><label>SR, LB </label> Draft request for chapter
reviewers <date>2007-03-23</date>
</note>
<note type="action"><label>SR </label>
Allocate chapter reviewers
<date>2007-03-23</date>
</note></p>
</div>
<div><head>Berlin Meeting</head>

<p>Council members should be available from the morning of Weds 25
April to that of Sat 28th; it was expected that LR would be posting
more information about the event on the 25th in due course. CW would
prepare a detailed agenda for discussion and resolution at the
meeting. It was noted that after Berlin we would not be able to make
any further technical decisions influencing the content of the 1.0
version. To complement the issues raised by the Council's review , LB
said that he and SB would produce a list of outstanding issues in
advance of the meeting.
<note type="action"><label>LB, SB  </label>
produce consolidated list of outstanding issues to be addressed for P5
1.0 <date>2007-04-15</date></note>
</p>
</div>
    </body>
  </text></TEI>