<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2008-04"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2008-04" from="2008-04-03" to="2008-04-04">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Galway</placeName>, <date>3–4 April 2008</date></meeting><author>David Sewell</author></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM038</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>Original version based on text notes by David Sewell, using <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm30.xml">2007</ref> meeting minutes as a template.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm38</change><change when="2008-04-10" who="#DRS">
            <name n="DRS">David Sewell</name> created </change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
      <front>
         <div>
            <p>All times are local (Irish Summer Time, UTC +1) unless otherwise
               noted.</p>
            <p>In attendance, from TEI Council: Laurent Romary (LR; chair),
               Gabriel Bodard (GB), Peter Boot (PB), Tone Merete Bruvik (TB),
               Arianna Ciula (AC), James Cummings (JC), Daniel O'Donnell (DO;
               Board Chair), Elena Pierazzo (EP), Paul Schaffner (PS), David
               Sewell (DS; minutes), and John Walsh (JW). Representing Oxford
               editorial support group: Lou Burnard (LB) and Sebastian Rahtz
               (SR). Not present: Manfred Thaller.</p>
            <p>The meetings were held at the <ref target="http://www.nuigalway.ie/mooreinstitute/">Moore
                  Institute for Research in the Humanities and Social
               Studies</ref> at the National University of Ireland, Galway. Most
               Council members were also present for the <title>Symposium on
                  Text Encoding in the Humanities</title> held at the Moore
               Institute on April 2, the day prior to the Council meeting, and
               several contributed presentations. The TEI Council wish to thank
               NUIG for hosting us, arranging lodging, and graciously inviting
               us to share a superb dinner with them.</p>
            <p>The meeting was called to order on <time when="2008-04-03T09:30:00">Thursday at approximately
               09:30</time> and continued until <time when="2008-04-04T17:30:00">approximately 17:30</time>; it resumed on <time when="2008-04-04T09:30:00">Friday at approximately
               09:30</time> and continued until <time when="2008-04-04T16:45:00">approximately 16:45</time>.</p>
         </div>
      </front>
      <body>
         <div>
            <head>Introductions and Procedural Issues</head>
            <p>Council members briefly introduced themselves and their key
               projects or interests. </p>
            <p>Minutes from the Council <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm37.xml">telephone meeting of 7 February 2008</ref> were approved. DO
               noted that the TEI Board has approved the proposal made during
               that meeting that an editorial support group at U of Oxford be
               formally established, for an initial trial period of two years
               (see next agenda item).</p>
         </div>
         <div>
            <head>Council Work and Organization</head>
            <div>
               <head>Editorial support</head>
               <p>SR outlined the major tasks of the editorial support group in
                  Oxford and the nature of its relationship to Council:</p>
               <list type="ordered">
                  <item>Monitor TEI-L and email to <ref target="mailto:editors@tei-c.org">editors@tei-c.org</ref> in order to identify feature
                     requests and bug reports for the Guidelines. Triage these
                     and present them to Council for decisions where necessary.</item>
                  <item>Silently handle minor fixes and corrections, and prepare
                     Guidelines releases every 6 months.</item>
                  <item>Maintain the tools that are considered to be TEI
                     Consortium deliverables, such as the XSLT stylesheets and
                     Roma. (There are other tools for which it is less clear
                     whether they are to be seen as TEI-endorsed.)</item>
               </list>
               <p>In summary, the main job of the editorial support group is to
                  be sure that TEI deliverables are maintained.</p>
               <p>LR notes that this represents a real change. Editors are no
                  longer taking decisions unilaterally, but rather based on
                  exchanges with Council. He suggests regular reports to Council
                  from the support group. (Discussion: is anything needed beyond
                  the changelogs kept automatically on SourceForge? Consensus:
                  periodic summaries of significant changes would be useful in
                  addition.) <note type="action"><rs>LB</rs> will produce
                     a summary of all SourceForge changes a week before every
                     Council meeting.</note></p>
               <p>This agenda item concluded with some discussion of how the
                  Oxford group would insure redundancy and continuity. SR noted
                  that the editorial tasks can be handled by any one of SR, LB,
                  and JC. As for interaction with Council and representation at
                  Council meetings, consensus was that ordinarily one
                  representative from the Oxford group will attend meetings as a
                  non-elected member, but Council may invite more at its
                  discretion.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Role of SIGs and working groups</head>
               <p>Discussion of this agenda item covered four main topics: (1)
                  the nature of the continuum between Special Interest Groups
                  (SIGs) and chartered TEI workgroups; (2) the relation of SIGs
                  and workgroups to Council; (3) procedures for insuring SIGs
                  remain viable, and discontinuing moribund SIGs when necessary;
                  and (4) strategies for encouraging a wide range of activity.
                  DO notes that the Board (??) is interested in breaking down
                  the fixed distinction between SIGs and workgroups in the
                  interest of flexibility in meeting needs. </p>
               <p>1. The main difference between a SIG and a workgroup is that
                  the latter is formed to complete a particular task (with
                  defined deliverables) and is chartered until the completion of
                  that task. LB notes that it has always been the case that if a
                  formal task proposal emerges from a SIG, Council may charter a
                  workgroup. DO notes that certain small tasks may be assigned
                  to a SIG without requiring a formal charter. Asked whether TEI
                  has a budget to encourage such small targeted tasks, DO
                  replied that although the budget needs to be formalized there
                  would seem to be some funds available. <note type="action"><rs>DO</rs>
                     report back on funding situation for <soCalled>small SIG
                        tasks</soCalled>.</note></p>
               <p>2. Previously, when a workgroup was chartered its chair became
                  a non-elected member of Council (??). Going forward,
                  individual Council members will serve as mentors/liaisons to
                  both workgroups and SIGs. The head of a workgroup may still be
                  invited to Council meetings as needed. In summary: Council
                  will formally charter workgroups and specific SIG tasks, and
                  assign a Council liaison in each case. We also have a formal
                  SIG coordinator appointed from the Board (currently Susan
                  Schreibman).</p>
               <p>3. Workgroups have a specific charter, but SIGs are centered
                  around a mission statement representing shared interest. Thus
                  there is the problem that a SIG may become moribund. How do we
                     <q>get rid of deadwood</q> (LR)? The Board has the
                  authority to disband them, but we should focus on support: SIG
                  leaders will now have a term of office, assuring turnover.
                  Council will assist the SIG coordinator in encouraging the
                  activities of SIGs. LR notes that one of Council's roles is to
                  insure that SIGs and workgroups have complementary,
                  non-overlapping roles. EP says that the required SIG reports
                  are another important way for Council to keep track of SIG
                  activity.</p>
               <p>4. We agree that it is in the TEI's interest to encourage a
                  wide range of activities, from formally chartered workgroups
                  through SIGs to more loosely affiliated interest groups. An
                  advantage of TEI <soCalled>branding</soCalled> of activities
                  is that we give credit to people who contribute to the
                  community (DO). SIGs will not always center around a specific
                  shared task; as JC notes, some SIGs exist mainly for community
                  building rather than to provide deliverables. </p>
               <p>We concluded with some discussion of TEI-related activity that
                  is not formally affiliated with the TEI Consortium. DO
                  suggested that we need to do more to capture contributions
                  from the community at large, but it was noted that some
                  projects, e.g. <ref target="http://www.kantl.be/ctb/project/2006/tei-ex.htm">TEI by Example</ref>, want to be autonomous. We agreed
                  that our outreach doesn't have to be
                  <soCalled>colonial</soCalled>.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div>
            <head>Technical Discussions</head>
            <div>
               <head>Procedures for handling Guidelines feature requests and
                  bugs</head>
               <p>LR summarizes our basic procedures:
                  <soCalled>everyday</soCalled> bugs (fixing typos and small
                  technical errors) will be handled by the Oxford editorial
                  support group. The Oxford group will also gather feature
                  requests and bug reports from TEI-L, email, and elsewhere.
                  These will be presented to Council for consideration on a
                  regular basis.</p>
               <p>JC and SR agree that Council members should be encouraged to
                  submit feature requests and bug reports as well. There are
                  some concerns about the ease of use of the Sourceforge
                  tracking system and the fact that (as SR pointed out) there is
                  not full overlap between the group of people who can assign
                  and close SourceForge tasks and the group of developers with
                  write-access to the Subversion repository. Should we split up
                  the SourceForge projects? After discussion, consensus was that
                  the SourceForge system has worked without serious problems and
                  should not be subject to major changes at this time.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Outstanding Sourceforge feature requests and bugs</head>
               <p>A major portion of our time on Day 1 was spent discussing
                  outstanding <ref target="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=644062&amp;group_id=106328&amp;func=browse">bugs</ref> and <ref target="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=644065&amp;group_id=106328&amp;func=browse">feature requests</ref> on SourceForge. The items and
                  outcomes are summarized in a separate document, <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Working/tcw12.xml"><title>Council Tracker Review: 3 April
                  08</title></ref>, which is hereby included by reference in
                  these minutes.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>New chapter proposal on rendering</head>
               <p>We next considered the <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Working/tcw10.xml">proposal from Brett Zamir</ref> to add to the Guidelines a
                  chapter <title rend="quotation">Recommendations on the
                     formatting of TEI documents</title>.</p>
               <p>After some discussion, Council reached a consensus that the
                  draft document is not suitable as a formal chapter of the
                  Guidelines, largely because the technologies and procedures
                  used for output rendering change frequently and are not under
                  the control of the TEI Consortium (e.g., XSLT processors, CSS
                  standards, etc.). However, we agreed that users of the TEI,
                  particularly new users, are typically interested in questions
                  of output: <q>I have tagged it, now how do I show it?</q>
                  Therefore we should make a point of incorporating some of the
                  suggestions from the draft chapter in other material, such as
                  the proposed <title>Getting Started with TEI</title> document
                  (q.v. below).</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>TEI-METS</head>
               <p>[JW was originally scheduled to report on the status of TEI
                  and <ref target="http://www.loc.gov/standards/mets/">METS</ref>, but we deemed that this ground had been covered
                  sufficiently by the <ref target="http://www.slis.indiana.edu/news/story.php?story_id=1709">paper</ref> that he had presented at the Wednesday
                  workshop.]</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head><title>Getting Started with TEI</title> document proposal</head>
               <p>Peter Boot had previously suggested that Council discuss the
                  creation of an introductory document on using the TEI
                  Guidelines, sponsored by the TEI and produced as an activity
                  led by Council. PB had volunteered to chair this activity.</p>
               <p>In PB's view, this document would be a <soCalled>lowest common
                     denominator</soCalled>, assuming as a typical reader
                  perhaps a graduate student working on a text who wants to make
                  it available using TEI. It would not re-do our <title>Gentle
                     Introduction to XML</title> but would be a new document
                  conceived as a standalone resource that could be read by
                  itself as a complete text, something one could “read on the
                  train”, although it would contain many pointers (and links, in
                  its Web-based version) to other material. It would be clearly
                  visible as a central TEI document and should in LR's words be
                  a <soCalled>flagship</soCalled> entry point to the TEI. As an
                  analogue, Edward Vanhoutte's <title rend="quotes">An
                     Introduction to the TEI and the TEI Consortium</title> in
                     <title>Literary and Linguistic Computing</title> (<ref target="http://llc.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/19/1/9">19.1, 2004)</ref> has been cited as one of
                  LLC's most frequently downloaded articles.
                     <hi>Consensus:</hi> all agreed that we want to move forward
                  with this project. In DO's words, <q>this is as central a task
                     for Council as Guidelines. A book not of similar
                     complexity, but of similar deliberation</q>.</p>
               <p>Some further discussion focused on issues of content and
                  audience. PB's original proposal had suggested targeting
                  examples at Windows users, but Council consensus was that an
                  official TEI document cannot be platform-specific. LB notes
                  that when introductory TEI documents were first proposed, the
                  assumption was that a primer works best when addressed to
                  members of a specific discipline; he advocates careful thought
                  about the scope of this publication and its target audience.
                  Consensus emerged around LR's observation that the document
                  should have sufficient material to be suitable for students as
                  well as specialist researchers. DS suggested we might survey
                  potential readers ahead of time on topics they'd like to see
                  addressed; DO recommended that we circulate a first draft
                  online for feedback.</p>
               <p>We agreed with LB that this document must look different from
                  existing introductory guides and tutorials;
                  <emph>simplicity</emph> should be a key goal, with short,
                  precise sections and word limits. (LR suggests a maximum
                  length equivalent to about 50 printed pages.)</p>
               <note type="action">PB will go ahead and take charge of this
                  project with assistance from Council, coming up with a list of
                  contributors (after we issue a call for volunteers) and
                  returning with a fuller proposal based on response. We will
                  aim for a first draft suitable for feedback for the
                     <emph>Members' Meeting in November 2008</emph>.</note>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Proposal for SIG on correspondence</head>
               <p>LR and DS presented the <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Working/tcw13.pdf">proposal for a Special Interest Group on
                  correspondence</ref> that came to use from Peter Stadler and
                  Joachim Veit of Paderborn University. DS noted that previously
                  two major initiatives have developed TEI extensions designed
                  to handle epistolary documents and related genres, the <ref target="http://adh.sc.edu/">Model Editions
                  Partnership</ref> and <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Projects/da03.xml">DALF</ref>; he advised that any new efforts toward TEI
                  customizations for use with correspondence should look closely
                  at the document analyses and solutions devised by those
                  groups. (DS noted that in the American context on which the
                  MEP concentrated, correspondence was one of a number of genres
                  included in <soCalled>documentary editions</soCalled> (e.g.
                  the <title>Papers of George Washington</title>), and had
                  originally proposed that the SIG's mission might include this
                  larger context; but Council consensus was that the specific
                  focus on correspondence/epistles is an appropriate scope.) </p>
               <p>LR stated that the SIG proposers should address four points:
                  (1) the scope of the SIG (just personal correspondence or
                     <term>epistles</term>, or more?); (2) examples of encoded
                  material; (3) networking the various groups and initiatives
                  interested in correspondence, beyond the context of
                  German-speaking musical historians; (4) the object of the SIG
                  as a TEI-chartered group.</p>
               <p>Council agreed that the purpose of this SIG should not be the
                  creation of a Guidelines chapter; rather, a document on
                  encoding certain types of documents (perhaps included proposed
                  TEI customizations). If this work is done well enough, we can
                     <soCalled>brand</soCalled> it. In any event, Council and
                  the SIG liaison assigned to the group should monitor their
                  work closely. <note type="action"><rs>DS</rs> will
                     submit an outline to the Paderborn researchers expressing
                     our interest in the proposal and asking them to address
                     LR's four points.</note></p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div>
            <head>Tools</head>
            <div>
               <head>OpenOffice and Microsoft Word conversions</head>
               <p>This agenda item was to address the tools provided on
                  Sourceforge for <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/wiki/index.php/TEI_OpenOffice_Package">converting between TEI-XML and OpenOffice</ref>, and
                  related MS Word conversion. SR began by noting that although
                  the OpenOffice stylesheets are hosted on the TEI Sourceforge
                  site, there has never been a suggestion that they are an
                  official TEI activity; they are an individual contribution
                  from SR. Nor is he actively developing Word stylesheets
                  (though this will change if the ISO project goes forward).
                  There are really two purposes for conversion to and from word
                  processing formats: its an <q>easy way to write angle
                  brackets</q>, and an easier way to print documents than using
                  TEI-XML (usually). Consensus was that the TEI does not want to
                     <soCalled>own</soCalled> these tools for now, as that
                  imposes a requirement to maintain them. </p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Work on TEI (X)HTML and PDF stylesheets</head>
               <p>A related item is the <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/Tools/Stylesheets/">XSLT
                     stylesheets</ref> which we do formally provide as a tool
                  for transforming TEI documents to HTML, LaTeX, and XSL-FO.
                  Discussion here focused on how these might be improved and/or
                  extended.</p>
               <p>As a preliminary caveat, however, SR noted that <q>we don't
                     want to imply there's a default way of rendering
                  everything</q>. JW observed that we already have a problem
                  with TEI users <q>encoding to match the stylesheet</q>—i.e.,
                  choosing tagging on the basis of how it will be displayed via
                  our XSLT. DO agrees that we don't want to suggest there is a
                  single canonical way of representing TEI, but having
                  stylesheets tailored for standard use cases would be helpful;
                  can our stylesheets be made more modular? AC cited as a sample
                  use case a stylesheet using the <ident type="module">transcr</ident> module that would align transcription with
                  original image. Or (LR) the Correspondence SIG could work on
                  improving stylesheet rendering for epistolary texts. TMB noted
                  that her users particularly like a service that allows them to
                  submit a small TEI-XML file and get back an HTML. Question:
                  should we provide complete examples of encoding and rendering?
                  EP points out that we long ago made a decision
                  <emph>not</emph> to do this because it would appear too
                  normative.</p>
               <p>Consensus: Although we don't want to provide
                  <soCalled>tools</soCalled> per se, stylesheets are important
                  to our mission. Providing and/or disseminating useful ones
                  should be considered part of our educational and outreach
                  mission. <note type="action"><rs>DO</rs> will produce
                     several example texts and <rs>SR</rs> will provide
                     some sample renderings using them.</note></p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div>
            <head>Projects and Outreach</head>
            <div>
               <head>Creation of element examples in the Guidelines</head>
               <p>This agenda item involved the examples of tagging that are
                  included in the Guidelines (and other TEI documents).</p>
               <p>JC proposed that we might want to come up with a new framework
                  for examples. Examples are found in multiple places and are
                  not identified by language. Sometimes examples of one element
                  provide good examples of another one but there is no way to
                  find them. Can we internationalize examples and improve
                  indexing and retrieval of them?</p>
               <p>There followed some technical discussion of approaches we
                  might take, e.g. extending the content model of
                     <gi>elementSpec</gi> so that it could point to more
                  examples; using XInclude to pull in examples from elsewhere;
                  using XPointer to point to examples in alternate languages;
                  using standoff markup... </p>
               <p>In the meantime, however, we need to improve the current
                  coverage of examples for elements in the Guidelines. SR
                  estimates that about 10% of TEI elements in the reference
                  section do not carry examples, and sets off to determine which
                  these are in real time as the meeting proceeds. <note type="action"><rs>Everyone</rs>: Council members are
                     each assigned a module and will create examples for
                     elements lacking them from <ref target="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/P5/noeg.html">Sebastian's final list</ref>, with assignments as
                     follows. Examples to be sent to LB; for newly authored
                     examples, provide a bibliographic citation. (Also, check
                     the “Note” for each element, if one exists, to be sure its
                     text remains correct for the latest release of P5.)</note><list>
                     <item>analysis: DO</item>
                     <item>core: DS</item>
                     <item>dictionaries: PS</item>
                     <item>figures: JW</item>
                     <item>gaiji: GB</item>
                     <item>header: DO</item>
                     <item>iso-fs: LR</item>
                     <item>linking: GB</item>
                     <item>msdescription: JC</item>
                     <item>namesdates: AC</item>
                     <item>nets: LR</item>
                     <item>spoken: PB</item>
                     <item>tagdocs: TMB</item>
                     <item>textcrit: EP</item>
                     <item>textstructure: PB</item>
                     <item>transcr: EP</item>
                  </list></p>
               <p>As a final point, PB observed that the content model (in the
                  “Declaration” section of the element reference) is too
                  complicated, and would prefer a prose description. LB points
                  out that this would not be maintainable. Consensus: do not
                  pursue. </p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Internationalization</head>
               <p>SR reports that over that past two years, 5 or 6 groups have
                  been working on translation of the reference portions of the
                  Guidelines. Chinese, French, German, Spanish, Japanese, and
                  Italian are being done manually. Within the next few weeks the
                  first 5 languages should be complete (?? which?).</p>
               <p>Oxford is testing automated translation software from Systran
                  that is being evaluated as a way of translating additional
                  languages (as a first pass; human editors would need to clean
                  up the translations). We might be able to get another 3 or 4
                  languages done this year using it. For example, a native
                  Portuguese speaker estimated it might take about 3 days to
                  clean up the automatic Portuguese translation.</p>
               <p>Question: how do we maintain the translations? The Systran
                  license is for one year only. Consensus: community-based
                  translation is the only viable way of maintaining
                  translations, by having the user communities take
                  responsibility for them.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>ISO proposal</head>
               <p>(SR) Last autumn the <ref target="http://www.iso.org/">ISO</ref> put out a call for bids on preparing a document
                  template and schema for authoring future ISO standards
                  documents. Oxford U. responded with a proposal for doing it in
                  TEI. An ISO committee visited Oxford and the proposal is in
                  the process of being accepted; we are now waiting for formal
                  confirmation. The ISO would contract with Oxford to: draw up
                  an ODD representation of an ISO standards document (including
                  SVG and MathML). Transforms from MS Word to TEI would be
                  assigned to someone at Brigham Young University. Copyright for
                  the ODD would be given to the TEI Consortium, to issue under
                  an open-source license. </p>
               <p>We agreed that if this agreement is reached, one benefit to
                  the TEI community would be our branding of the standard. SR
                  feels that it will be some time before documents are actually
                  authored in TEI (rather than converted from MS Word), but LB
                  notes that it will be more likely for documents that define
                  new schemas.</p>
               <p>We then discussed whether to seek ISO status for the ODD
                  schema specification. Although ODD is currently used mainly
                  within the TEI community, SR reports that one W3C project is
                  using it. LR outlines 3 possible options for proceeding: (1)
                  start working on it as a continuation of ISO-doc project, and
                  take a proposal to the ISO technical management board; (2):
                  submit ODD as a candidate on a fast-track procedure as a
                  generic standard for schema specification (but a problem is
                  that it would have to go into the same generic IT committee
                  that considered the MS Office XML format; (3) reduce scope and
                  visibility by going to a committee like <ref target="http://www.tc37sc4.org/">TC37</ref>, so as to be
                  seen as a candidate specification for language resource
                  applications.</p>
               <p>LB raises a concern about whether ODD is yet stable enough to
                  proceed. Also, will people object that ODD is just an expanded
                  schema language that does nothing which W3C XML Schema cannot
                  do? (SR notes that any consideration of ODD would logically
                  belong in <ref target="http://www.itscj.ipsj.or.jp/sc34/">JTC
                     1/SC 34 - Document Description and Processing
                  Languages</ref>, where NVDL and RELAX NG live.)</p>
               <p>Is this worth our time and resources? Is it within our
                  mission? Consensus: yes, this would bring benefits to the
                  current TEI community and would serve as outreach to the
                  larger XML community. It would return benefits to us if more
                  native TEI applications result, along with a more stable ODD
                  language. We will begin exploring this with the relevant
                  people within the standards community. <note type="action"><rs>LR</rs> will talk to his contacts.</note></p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>TEI Tite</head>
               <p>DO reported on the status of TEI Tite and the <ref target="http://cirss.lis.uiuc.edu/DigHum/tei.html">study
                     underway</ref> headed by John Unsworth and Perry Trolard to
                  project the demand and uses for the TEI Tite customization
                  intended to be used for digitizing printed material such as
                  monographs in bulk quantities. The study will also explore
                  including access to a consortial vendor agreement as a TEI
                  Member benefit. Both potential clients and keyboarding vendors
                  will be surveyed as part of the study.</p>
               <p>All agreed that there needs to be closer integration of the
                  work on Tite into Council activities, and improved lines of
                  communication. <note type="action"><rs>DO</rs> will try
                     to set up a conference call with John Unsworth, to include
                     PS, JW, DS, and LR.</note></p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>ENRICH project</head>
               <p>JC reports on the <ref target="http://enrich.manuscriptorium.com/">ENRICH
                  Project</ref> (European Networking Resources and Information
                  concerning Cultural Heritage), a two-year project that LB and
                  SR have previously worked with and that JC will be in the
                  future. The aim is twofold: to aggregate metadata for medieval
                  manuscripts in a single portal, and to have the archives
                  standardize on TEI P5 as a data format. The Czech Republic is
                  committed to long-term maintenance of the project. (Note that
                  Manuscriptorium, the portal site, is a commercial enterprise;
                  this is not an open-access project. However, the ENRICH ODD
                  and conversion XSLT stylesheets for Master2TEI will be made
                  publicly available under an open source license.)</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div>
            <head>Forthcoming Events, Conferences, Etc.</head>
            <p>Here we discussed our collective or individual participation in
               various upcoming meetings.<list type="ordered">
                  <item>TEI Members Meeting. We will plan on some sort of
                     face-to-face Council meeting; we don't currently have TEI
                     Consortium budget for more than one annual face-to-face
                     meeting (but we will investigate the possibility). (LR
                     suggests we should try to have a meeting, whether
                     face-to-face or via conference call, about once every two
                     months.) Question: do we still need to distribute live CD's
                     at the meeting? Consensus: no, but we should be prepared to
                     distribute the most current pre-release version of the
                     Guidelines, in digital form. If possible we should
                     distribute it on USB key drives as a freebie.</item>
                  <item>Dublin Core 2008. LR reports that it will be held in
                     Berlin in September 2008. LR will attend and present an
                     overview of the TEI. Ideally someone else from Council
                     should attend on 26 September, to assist with a slot
                     involving metadata.</item>
                  <item>Oxford Summer School. SR reports that Oxford will
                     conduct a <ref target="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Oxford/2008-07-oxford_summer_school/">3-day summer school on TEI-XML</ref>, plus 2 days on
                     TEI and XSLT, during the third week of July.</item>
                  <item>"Camp Edit": DS will offer a session on TEI in digital
                     documentary editions at <ref target="http://www.wisconsinhistory.org/about/campedit/index.asp">Camp Edit</ref>, the annual training institute for
                     historical documentary editors at the University of
                     Wisconsin, Madison. He notes that interest in TEI among
                     editors of historical documents has been growing rapidly in
                     North America in the last couple of years.</item>
               </list></p>
         </div>
         <div>
            <head>Final Discussion, Wrap-up</head>
            <p>LR summarizes our accomplishments during our meeting: handling
               the SourceForge bugs and feature requests, opening new windows
               for outreach activities, planning the <soCalled>Getting
               Started</soCalled> document and agreeing to pursue the
               Correspondence SIG. </p>
            <p>Unresolved issues? We still have to iron out some of the
               relations between Board and Council with respect to outreach
               responsibilities. In the past, there was the notion that the
               Board's job was to <soCalled>get members</soCalled> and the
               Council's to <soCalled>produce stuff</soCalled>. We now
               acknowledge that there are technical aspects to outreach that the
               Council should logically handle. But Council is not being asked
               to do everything.</p>
            <p>SR wonders whether we need to promulgate a road map to P6 now.
               Should we have an answer if asked <q>what's our plan for P6</q>?
               Consensus after discussion is that this year our mission is
               development of training and support. Eventually Council will make
               a recommendation to the Board about a schedule for preparation
               and release of P6; but a fully new P6 release will come about
               only as a response to major external requirements (for example,
               if the W3C established an XML specification that enabled
               overlapping hierarchies!). In the meantime there will be P5 point
               releases. (SR still feels that we ought to let people know to
               what extent plans for P6 are in the works.)</p>
            <p>LB suggests that the Board be requested to consider providing
               funding for groups making the transition from P4 to P5. (??
               elaborate on this)</p>
            <p>The TEI website still needs improvements. <note type="action"><rs>DO</rs> will take up website issues with the Web
                  committee and the Board.</note></p>
            <p>The Critical Apparatus chapter in the Guidelines seriously needs
               revision and should be a priority.</p>
            <p>Left unresolved were decisions about future face-to-face
               meetings. The productivity of our bug/FR session suggests that a
               twice-yearly schedule might be worthwhile. <note type="action"><rs>ALL</rs> need to decide on our next face-to-face
                  meeting; London in November, or potentially a September
                  meeting. (Following the meeting, JC suggested that we could
                  aim to do this following the Digital Resources in the
                  Humanities and Arts conference (14–17 Sept. in
                  Cambridge, UK.)</note></p>
            <p>In the future, Council may want to consider its call for hosting
               as part of our outreach mission, including a mini-conference as
               we have done in Galway.</p>
         </div>
      </body>
   </text></TEI>