<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2008-02"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2008-02" when="2008-02-07">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>7 February 2008</date></meeting><author>David Sewell</author></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM037</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Re-tagged from a TEI Legacy format document which contained the following source note:</p><p>From edited notes transcribed as text</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-05-01">Archival header confected</change><change>Converted from the TEI archival document tcm37</change><change when="2008-02-11" who="#DRS">
            <name xml:id="DRS">David Sewell</name> created </change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
      <front>
         <div>
            <p>The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Thursday 7 February 2008 at
               13:00 UTC.</p>

            <p>
               <hi>Participants:</hi> Gabriel Bodard (GB), Arianna Ciula (AC), James Cummings (JC),
               Syd Bauman (SB), Lou Burnard (LB), Dan O'Donnell (DO), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), David
               Sewell (DS; minutes), Laurent Romary (LR; Chair), and John Walsh (JW).</p>

            <p>Council members unable to participate: Peter Boot, Tone Bruvik, Elena Pierazzo,
               Manfred Thaller.</p>

         </div>
      </front>

      <body>
         <div>
            <head>Scope of Council Activities</head>
            <div>

               <head>Technical Activities</head>

               <div>

                  <head>Guideline Status</head>

                  <p>LR asks us to consider the current status of Guidelines. How are we handling
                     updates and point releases? SR reminds us that he had raised the question of
                     fixed release vs. varying bug-fix releases and had recommended a 2x per year
                     schedule. GB, AC, and SB agreed that practice and consensus was for a fixed
                     timetable. SR notes that the 1.0.1 release is a "release zero", not a 6-month
                     release. LR concurs: the next release will be over the summer, unless serious
                     bugs appear. JC notes that everyone has access to <ref target="http://sourceforge.net/projects/tei/">SourceForge</ref> for
                     intermediate stages.</p>

                  <p>Should we have a "stable/unstable" distinction? It's helpful for people to test
                     releases. LB: there is a fixed date in the TEI timetable, the November meeting.
                     Shall we say there will always be a prerelease of next major release before
                     Nov?</p>

                  <p>JC asks about numbering of releases, so people can cite the version of the
                     Guidelines they are using. SR: the only way to do this is by release dates,
                     where the date is the version number. LR notes that a release is more than just
                     a source version on SourceForge, it involves a lot of checking. DO asks if
                     someone could just write up a numbering system for us to put on a Web page? A
                     new version number will be added when there is an actual feature/module change,
                     not just changes to Guidelines language.</p>

                  <p>LR: can we stabilize the following formulation? <q rend="italic">Releases every 6 months; a prerelease before the November meeting;
                           unstable SourceForge branches are maintained and identified by
                           SourceForge revision number. A "release" consists of the SourceForge
                           update, creation of compiled packages and schemas, and an update of the
                           Guidelines (LB).</q></p>

               </div>

               <div>

                  <head>Bug reporting</head>

                  <p>LR asks about the current situation with the stability of the Guidelines: do we
                     still have major bugs, or just tiny issues over next months? JC: it's not clear
                     where bug reports are going any more. LB: it is clear we want bug reports to go
                     to SourceForge, into the tracker. But we haven't agreed on: (1) how to make
                     sure Council provides input, or who is responsible; (2) the way to build a
                     workflow to take suggestions &amp; deal with them. DO: this will be an
                     important thing to discuss in Galway. LB: is this channel best way of
                     soliciting input? SB: no, many people are scared by SourceForge. We need to
                     have an email/list mechanism. LB: then at the point in discussion where there
                     is general agreement, someone needs to write it up as a SourceForge feature
                     request. LR notes the gap between TEI-L and TEI Council. DO: So we need
                     formally to keep an eye on TEI-L, and put into SourceForge bug reports and
                     feature requests from there. JC: shouldn't all Council members do this? DO: but
                     it helps to have someone designated. LR agrees; at the Members' Meeting, we
                     discussed the dropping of Guideline <soCalled>editors</soCalled>, with work on
                     them organized by Council, but LR strongly recommends that we provide stable
                     editorial support to Oxford. DO: the decision about editors was made to
                     increase flexibility, not to remove input from the current editors. There is no
                     mandate for "editors" in the (TEI Consortium) Bylaws, but we can still assign
                     certain tasks as needed.</p>



                  <p> LR recommends that Board discuss this matter; we need an <soCalled>air traffic
                        controller</soCalled>.</p>



                  <p>There followed some additional discussion on bug reporting/tracking procedures.
                     DS suggests the possibility of a Wiki area on the TEI Wiki for bug discussion.
                     SB suggests having a single email address for bug reports. DO objects that this
                     creates multiple unofficial channels for bug reports. We don't want multiple
                     lists. SB replies that we're going to have this no matter what. LB replies we
                     can insist on paying attention only to two places and having bug reports sent
                     to specified venues. JC says that if bugs are to be discussed on an email list,
                     surely that should be TEI-L. AC notes some people don't understand the
                     distinctions between the different venues. We need a mechanism to facilitate
                     communication for less technically adept users. DO asks, why not have a
                     volunteer from Council as facilitator?</p>



                  <p>LR: there's a problem with having too many tools. Let's have a clear mechanism.
                     TEI-L is a good place for all these discussions; let us not have lots of side
                     discussions.</p>



                  <p>DO: Okay, let's use SourceForge as our single location, with mechanisms for
                     helping people report who don't use SourceForge. LR: there should be tutorials
                     on how to report. If we reduce number of tools, people can be more aware of
                     them.</p>



                  <p>DO: it sounds like we have identified a need for a release secretary and a
                     SourceForge secretary, and an editorial support group.</p>

               </div>

            </div>

            <div>

               <head>Outreach and Education</head>

               <div>

                  <head>ODD</head>

                  <p>LR begins by suggesting that <mentioned>exemplars</mentioned> and
                        <mentioned>ODD</mentioned> are key words. One of main ways we can offer
                     entry into the TEI environment is by adding ready-made schemas. SR cautions
                     that if we create exemplars by committee, it will be difficult to get results.
                     SB says that the current crop of exemplars are good for creating ODDs, but not
                     so good for tackling various tasks. We don't have sample schemas that are good
                     for encoding. For example: we don't show how to use constraints. SR observes
                     that an exemplar constraining types might not be useful for individual needs.
                     TEI Tite and TEI Lite, on the other hand, are intended to "be used"; LB concurs
                     that whatever the original intentions behind Lite were, it is used as an "off
                     the shelf" product. GB: we don't want example ODDs, we want example projects.
                     [Unidentified] notes that the word <mentioned>exemplar</mentioned> is
                     ambiguous, especially for non-English speakers; can we find a better term?
                     [Note from DS: this is correct, for English speakers as well. The <title>New
                        Oxford Dictionary of English</title> definition of
                        <mentioned>exemplar</mentioned> is "a person or thing serving as a typical
                     example or appropriate model". The latter sense is normative; the former is
                     not.]</p>


                  <p>LB: this is what the TEI by Example project was supposed to provide.
                     Unfortunately it's not doing that. It would be good to have set of examples of
                     how people have solved things. JC agrees: "case studies". [Unidentified] says
                     this is an issue of the scope of Council: instead of doing this ourselves, we
                     should figure out how to liaise w/ other groups doing these activities. General
                     agreement.</p>



                  <p>LR asks, what is status of ODD? Should we focus on improvements to ODD
                     features? SB: yes, but we should defer this so we can address other issues
                     first. SR agrees; this isn't a core business of Council in 2008; we should
                     treat it as a parallel activity. LR objects that this ODD is in fact essential
                     to outreach, as many TEI communities can contribute via ODD modules. The
                     importance of ODD means it should be on our agenda (even if we don't make
                     changes). GB concurs that it may be a mistake to segregate ODD activity;
                     customizing TEI is a basic activity. Any outreach/education will connect with
                     ODD.</p>



                  <p>SR: We don't want to send the message "here's the language to use, but we're
                     going to change it". ODD is unusual because it is tied up with the software
                     that implements it.</p>

               </div>

               <div>

                  <head>Other Outreach and Internationalization Goals</head>

                  <p>LR: Within Council, we should find a way to relate to external projects
                     connected with TEI. We will integrate results of other groups; some of us will
                     have duties to interact with specific ones. "I see more and more requests for
                     short introductions on specific topics and offering examples." We could provide
                     consultation on these matters. DO agrees: this has always been Council's duty.
                     For example, current funding proposals before the National Endowment for the
                     Humanities include two very TEI-centric projects.</p>



                  <p>LR: This is true of internationalization also.</p>



                  <p>Question: how do we identify the groups with which Council should interact? LR
                     suggests this is part of Council's activity. DO asks whether we should issue
                     invitations for groups who want Council involvement. JC notes that when someone
                     comes to TEI-L an asks "can someone help me?" we need to provide a name. DO
                     says this will become more and more important in funding projects.</p>



                  <p>LR concludes: we should systematize the responsibility of these "corresponding
                     persons". This will be added to the Galway meeting agenda.</p>

               </div>

            </div>

         </div>

         <div>

            <head>Global Organization of Council</head>

            <div>

               <head>Communication</head>

               <p>The next discussion involved the TEI's communication platforms, specifically the
                  TEI website and our mailing lists. LR notes a need for Council workgroups or
                  people to oversee both. The Board has appointed a website workgroup that we can
                  provide input to.</p>



               <p>LB notes that service over the past year from Council email list has not been
                  good; the server has been down too often. JC asks whether it wouldn't make sense
                  to have all TEI email lists hosted on tei-c.org? SB raises a difficulty: the main
                  list TEI-L is run on commercial software. No alternative software that he is aware
                  of supports that level of service. Can we find open-source software? LB says that
                  TEI-L is working fine and is not the issue. But perhaps the tei-council list
                  should be moved. Level of service is more important than whether or not all the
                  lists are in one place.</p>



               <p>LR summarizes that we need to confirm ongoing support for the lists at Virginia,
                  or explore the possibility of merging or moving list hosts. DS offers to confer
                  with his Virginia colleagues on that status of the system hosting the lists. [He
                  reported back that lists.village.virginia.edu, the host for the TEI Council and
                  Board email lists, is indeed in the process of being merged with the new tei-c.org
                  host, which will have 24/7 tech support; and the IATH system administrator is
                  looking into adding full-text search on the tei-council list archive.]</p>

            </div>

            <div>

               <head>Responsibilities</head>

               <p>LR moves on to a discussion of general TEI Consortium responsibilities and
                  Council's part in them. DO raises the issue of who "has the keys" to different
                  things: who has responsibility, for example, for the SourceForge repository, for
                  www.tei-c.org., etc? Should we survey who controls the different things we use?
                  LR: Yes. if we know for example that U of Virgina has responsibility for the
                  website, we need to have a single contact person. Likewise with Oxford's editorial
                  support. DO: we don't have a single list of responsibilities. We should maybe put
                  together before Galway meeting: SourceForge, mailing lists, website, Wiki... who
                  has the passwords and oversight. SB agrees that such an inventory is important. LR
                  asks that all "keyholders" please send a note to DS for inclusion in the
                  minutes.</p>

               <p>DS subsequently received the following information on keyholding responsibilities
                  for TEI resources:</p>

               <list type="gloss">

                  <label>Highspeedconferencing account (used for conference calls)</label>



                  <item>Dan O'Donnell</item>



                  <label> Mailing Lists (active)</label>



                  <item>

                     <list type="gloss">

                        <label>@ Brown University: Syd Bauman default admin, plus others in
                           parentheses</label>



                        <item>

                           <list>

                              <item>TEI-L</item>

                              <item>TEI-MEET</item>

                              <item>TEI-MEMBERS (Veronika Lux)</item>

                              <item>TEI-MS-SIG (Elena Pierazzo)</item>

                              <item>TEI-MUSIC-SIG (Raffaele Viglianti, Gabriel Bodard, Dot
                                 Porter)</item>

                              <item>TEI-OL-SIG (David Durand)</item>

                              <item>TEI-SIGS (Susan Schreibman)</item>

                              <item>TEI-SOM (David Durand)</item>

                           </list>

                        </item>



                        <label>@ Indiana University</label>



                        <item>TEILIB-L (John Walsh)</item>



                        <label>@ New York University</label>



                        <item>tei-presentation (Matthew Zimmerman)</item>



                        <label>@ Oxford: Lou Burnard and/or Sebastian Rahtz, admins</label>



                        <item>

                           <list>

                              <item>tei-chars</item>

                              <item>tei-extensions</item>

                              <item>tei-i18n</item>

                              <item>tei-iso-fs</item>

                              <item>tei-meta</item>

                           </list>

                        </item>



                        <label>@ SourceForge (same admins as for SourceForge project, q.v.)</label>



                        <item>

                           <list>

                              <item>tei-choice</item>

                              <item>tei-ontology-sig</item>

                           </list>

                        </item>



                        <label>@ University of Virginia, hosted at IATH (Daniel Pitti), list admin
                           David Sewell</label>



                        <item>

                           <list>

                              <item>tei-board</item>

                              <item>tei-council</item>

                           </list>

                        </item>

                     </list>

                  </item>





                  <label>Membership Database</label>



                  <item>Veronica Lux. Syd Bauman has r/o access.</item>



                  <label>Perforce repository (at OUCS)</label>



                  <item>Lou Burnard, chief administrator; others with r/w access are Syd Bauman,
                     James Cummings, Sebastian Rahtz.</item>



                  <label>Servers</label>



                  <item>

                     <list>

                        <item>www.tei-c.org.uk at Oxford, still used for Vault (Sebastian Rahtz and
                           Lou Burnard)</item>

                        <item>tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk, used for test Roma and Guidelines (Sebastian Rahtz)
                           — including Debian repository, administered by Sebastian Rahtz</item>

                        <item>www.tei-c.org at U of Virginia, main TEI server, administered by
                           Daniel Pitti</item>

                     </list>

                  </item>



                  <label>SourceForge</label>



                  <item>Project admins are Syd Bauman, Lou Burnard, Sebastian Rahtz. As of these
                     minutes, there are a total of 14 developers (with rights to update source),
                     list viewable at <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/project/memberlist.php?group_id=106328">https://sourceforge.net/project/memberlist.php?group_id=106328</ref>
                     .</item>



                  <label>TEI Live CD source</label>

                  <item>owned by Sebastian Rahtz</item>



                  <label> TEI Website (on www.tei-c.org)</label>



                  <item>administered by Christine Ruotolo. Other people with read/write access to
                     the OpenCMS repository used for the website: Lou Burnard, Julia Flanders,
                     Sebastian Rahtz. System administration: Shayne Brandon (IATH), Amit Kumar (U
                     Indiana)</item>



                  <label>TEI Wiki administrators</label>



                  <item>James Cummings (Council), Piotr Banski, Kevin Hawkins. The system
                     administrator in charge is Shayne Brandon of IATH at UVa.</item>

               </list>

            </div>

         </div>

         <div>

            <head>Preparation for Galway Meeting</head>

            <p>LR: Dates for the meeting are fixed, April 2-4. Organizer and contact person is Malte
               Rehbein (malte.rehbein@nuigalway.ie). On Wednesday the 2nd there will be a symposium
               organized by Malte, who has issued a Call for Papers. The Council meeting proper will
               take place on the 3rd and 4th. We don't have a specific plan for Council members to
               participate in the symposium, but it is expected that we will attend and contribute.
               AC says that the organizers are focusing on presentations from the Irish TEI
               community. They will see how many local presentations they have and will then ask
               Council if they need supplementation. LR notes that we have a group hotel rate, so no
               need to worry about lodging. We'll plan to start the Council meeting early on
               Thursday, and to end by 4 p.m. Friday afternoon. DO will post to tei-council about
               arrangements.</p>



            <p>Information about Council funding of the meeting is on the TEI Wiki in the <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/wiki/index.php/TEI-Council-FAQ#What_funding_is_available_for_Council_Activities.3F">TEI Council FAQ</ref>.</p>

         </div>





      </body>

   </text></TEI>