<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2009-10"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2009-10" when="2009-10-13">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>13 October 2009</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM042</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21898</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <body>
	
		<head>TEI Council Meeting</head>		<milestone unit="unknown" rend="rule"/>
	

	<div>
		
	


<p>The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Tuesday 15 October 2009 from 14:00
          to 15:45 UTC.</p>
<p>
          <hi>Participants:</hi> Gabriel Bodard (GB), Peter Boot (PB), Lou Burnard (LB), James
          Cummings (JC), Elena Pierazzo (EP), Dot Porter (DP) Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary
          (LR, Chair), Paul Schaffner (PS), David Sewell (DS, minutes).</p>
<p>Council members unable to participate: Dan O’Donnell.</p>

<div><head>
        Change in Council terms?</head>
<p>LR introduces a proposal from TEI Board to increase TEI Council terms from 2 to 3 years.
          Board is concerned that there is too much turnover with the 2-year terms, and that a large
          election slate is required at each election. Consensus of Council is that the status quo
          is working; we just need to encourage good candidates to stand for election and to
          continue in office so long as they are willing. </p>
<p>        <note><rs>LR</rs> will report to Board that we recommend no change</note></p>
</div>
<div><head>
        Member resignation</head>
<p>LR reports that Arianna Ciula has recently tendered her resignation from Council, citing
          the demands of her new position which remove her from active involvement with TEI. Council
          accepts with sympathetic regrets, appreciation for Arianna’s past service, and best
          wishes.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
        Discussion of Sourceforge bugs and feature requests</head>
<p>We discussed open <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=106328">Sourceforge</ref> bugs and feature requests, in that order, categorized using our
          color-code conventions (“green” for clear action, “amber” needing moderate discussion,
          “red” complex or problematic issues).</p>
<div><head>
          Bugs</head>
<p>Open items assigned to SR were not discussed as he is addressing them independently.
            See also the comments for each item, linked from the item number.</p>
<list><label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2812295&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2812295</ref>, <gi>graphic</gi> should allow <gi>desc</gi> child</label>
<item>Accept LB’s proposal</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2714682&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2714682</ref>, <gi>biblScope</gi> in Imprint?</label>
<item>LB wants to leave for more consideration. LR says essential for next release.
              Agree to leave as amber; needs more work.</item>
</list>
<p>Open “green” bugs: LB is clear on how to implement fixes. <note><rs>LB</rs>: fix
              and close green bugs.</note></p>
</div>
<div><head>
          Feature Requests</head>
<list><label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2830815&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2830815</ref>, vesta: convert multiple schemata</label>
<item>SB: Vesta is still experimental, not a core deliverable. It doesn’t affect next
              release, hold off on action.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2859355&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2859355</ref>, <gi>subst</gi> should permit textual data</label>
<item>EP explains rationale for the request. Should be classed as amber, needing more
              discussion. <note><rs>EP</rs>: supply use case examples</note></item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2859183&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2859183</ref>, Make all milestoneLike elements spanning</label>
<item>Needs more discussion. Amber.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2242434&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2242434</ref>, element for text suppressed by the editor</label>
<item>LB wants specification w/examples of use and some text. <note><rs>SR +
                EP</rs>: draft something for further discussion</note></item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2728061&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2728061</ref>, Add <att>target</att> to <gi>relatedItem</gi></label>
<item>PB says we did decide to implement this; we just need examples. Main question is
              to decide whether <att>target</att> and element content are mutually exclusive. PB
              feels that <att>target</att> is for simple cases, content used for complex elements.
              LR has found precise use cases. LB agrees to greenlight, under mild protest.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2728068&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2728068, suggested values for relatedItem/@type</ref></label>
<item>We need examples. <note><rs>PS</rs>: supply examples</note></item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2783323&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2783323</ref>, add <att>from</att> and <att>to</att> to <gi>choice</gi></label>
<item>LB sees problems with the proposal, we agree to defer discussion.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2794512&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2794512</ref>, move <gi>space</gi> to core module</label>
<item>LB doesn’t think good idea; not convinced it’s common enough in texts to warrant
              the change. JC: why not just include transcription module in customizations? LR: any
              bad side effects of moving it? LB: core module is already bloated. LR: we need to
              discuss the general nature of core modules. PS: we need more discussion of the
              semantics of textual spaces. Keep this amber. <note><rs>DS + PS</rs> prepare a
                short discussion of issue for our next FTF meeting.</note></item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2798963&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2798963</ref>, add <att>role</att> to <gi>author</gi></label>
<item>Previously, <att>role</att> was added to <gi>name</gi>, so there is some
              precedent. If <gi>author</gi> were member of att.naming, it would get <att>role</att>.
              LR: for scientific publishing, <gi>biblStruct</gi> is OK except for a few things, this
              is one. It’s important to be able to identify corresponding author. We keep this
              amber, will discuss further.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2811234&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2811234</ref>, add <att>ref</att> to <gi>material</gi></label>
<item>LB has noted that there’s nothing obvious to point to from <att>ref</att> her. GB:
              it is useful to be able to point to a description of a material from individual
                <gi>material</gi> elements. LB: we don’t have clear consensus, defer to FTF.
              Agreed.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2811239&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2811239</ref>, new element <gi>object</gi></label>
<item>Merge with preceding and consider jointly.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2812634&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2812634</ref>, <att>docStatus</att> on <gi>edition</gi></label>
<item>Request for this arises mostly from born-digital documents, to indicate the state
              of a document (edition). LR thinks we should use attributes the same way in
              revisionDesc. Keep this amber, needs description and examples. <note><rs>SR</rs>
                will work up a suggested implementation</note></item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2834505&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2834505</ref>, <att>cert</att> on <gi>choice</gi> and model.choicePart</label>
<item>JC: the point would be to allow nested <gi>choice</gi> elements, assigning
              relatively probablities to each. LB has concerns and requests amber status. LB
              suggests that this discussion incorporate <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2862151&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2862161</ref> (Allow certainty etc. in “empty” elements)</item>
</list>
<p>In connection with the preceding ticket, we need to revisit the use of <att>match</att>
            and related attributes to indicate certainty. <note><rs>GB</rs>: create a new
              ticket.</note></p>
<list><label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2411994&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2411994</ref>, Define canonical way of referencing TEI element definitions</label>
<item>Awaiting implementation of proposed Vault archiving.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2507305&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2507305</ref>, Alignment and documentation of sound files</label>
<item>Presents some of same issues as <gi>facsimile</gi>. Needs further discussion.
              Should be merged with <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2724997&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2724997</ref>, “Cater for audio/video facsimile”</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=1934586&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">1934586</ref>, Chapter Revision: Critical Apparatus</label>
<item>LB wonders why this is a Sourceforge ticket. Essentially, it’s a reminder of
              needed work. EP: MS SIG wants to undertake a revision w/a working group. Need to
              identify a chair. We agree to close the ticket and ask the MS SIG to submit specific
              tickets as needed.</item>
</list>
<p/>
<p>Of the Green items, per LB the only problem is <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2531384&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2531384</ref>, “Rationalise application of <att>target</att>“. (The basic issue is
            that <att>target</att> is defined in several different ways for different elements, and
            differs in optionality and data type.) LR: it would be nice to have a single
              <att>target</att> attribute with a defined syntax. It would clarify TEI to outside
            world to have single mechanism for pointing with <att>target</att>. SR: we can still use
            Schematron to constrain to a single token. Q: what do we do about the existing
              <att>targets</att>, allowed on 3 elements? Consensus: we deprecate. Convert to
            Amber.</p>
</div>

<div><head>
        2009 Members Meeting: Council Report, etc.</head>
<p>LR ask that all Council members report to him via email their 2008–9 activities within
          the next two or three days, along with other items that should be added to the report. LR.
          will compile and send to Council.</p>
<p>        <note><rs>All</rs>: send notes to Laurent.</note></p>
<p>LR will be giving a paper on the future of ODD. We should also monitor discussion of TEI
          in publishing. LB raises the issue of the ACLS (North America) Humanities E-Book project,
          which uses a non-TEI DTD; should we get involved?LR notes that this is causing issues for
          e.g. European publishers like <ref target="http://revues.org/">revues.org</ref> who are
          wondering why to use TEI if Americans are doing something different. One of our goals
          should be to compose a single recommendation for academic publishing. (DS and others
          pursued this on Council email following the telco.) We agree to mention this in our
          Meeting report.</p>
<p>        <note><rs>All</rs>: send LR examples of TEI in publishing (especially scholarly /
          scientific).</note></p></div>
<div><head>
        Final Points; Next Face-to-Face Meeting</head>
<list>
<item>Status of <gi>valList</gi> content model? SR says the update has been implemented;
              <gi>valList</gi> is a sibling of <gi>content</gi>. Any further changes will need more
            discussion.</item>
<item>HTML 5: any action we need to take? SR: it doesn’t affect TEI per se, rather it will
            affect best practices for TEI-to-Web output; we may need to target HTML 5 in future.
            This wouldn’t impact core markup, but would impact stylesheets if we decide to generate
            HTML 5. HTML is not a fixed target.</item>
<item>Next FTF. If funding comes through for the ESF workshop, it might be attached to
            that. Otherwise, we plan for a spring meeting in Paris. (Finland was previously
            discussed but the potential sponsors may not have received funding.)</item>
</list>
</div>
	</div>
	</div>
	</body></text></TEI>