<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2009-04"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2009-04" from="2009-04-02" to="2009-04-03">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Lyon</placeName>, <date>2–3 April 2009</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM041</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-22688</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body>
	
		<head>TEI Council Meeting</head>		<milestone unit="unknown" rend="rule"/>
	


		
		
<div>
<p>All times are local (Central European Summer Time, UTC +2) unless otherwise noted.</p>
<p>In attendance, from TEI Council: Laurent Romary (LR; chair), Peter Boot (PB), Arianna
          Ciula (AC), James Cummings (JC), Daniel O'Donnell (DO; Board Chair), Dot Porter (DP), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Paul
          Schaffner (PS), and David Sewell (DS; minutes). Representing Oxford editorial support
          group: Lou Burnard (LB). Not present: Gabriel Bodard, Elena
          Pierazzo, Manfred Thaller.</p>
<p>The meetings were held at <ref target="http://www.ens-lsh.fr/">l'Ecole normale supérieure
            Lettres et sciences humaines</ref>, Lyon, France. Most
          Council members were also present for the <ref target="https://listes.cru.fr/wiki/tei-res/public/tei_council_2009_a_lyon">Public
            Meeting</ref> held at ENS on April 1, the day prior to the Council meeting, and several
          served as session chairs. The TEI Council wish to thank our hosts at ENS-LSH for their
          hospitality, and acknowledge in particular Serge Heiden for going beyond the call of duty
          in arranging back-up facilities during the Thursday <foreign>jour de grève</foreign> at
          ENS.</p>
<p>The meeting was called to order on Thursday at
            approximately 09:10 and continued until approximately 18:30; it resumed on Friday at
            approximately 09:00 and continued until approximately 16:00.</p>

<div><head>
          TEI Website</head>
<p>Discussion under this heading focused on two topics: general organization and workflow
            of the TEI website; and maintenance of the TEI “vault”, i.e. historical versions of the
            Guidelines and archived versions of releases going forward. LR summarized the four main
            issues:</p>
<list>
<item>updating our tools</item>
<item>updating files</item>
<item>keeping the vault in a stable place</item>
<item>reorganizing the website</item>
</list>
<div><head>
            Vault, archiving</head>
<p>Council agreed that users of the TEI website should be able easily to find the
              current version of the Guidelines along with clearly labeled archives (the <soCalled>vault</soCalled>).
              At present, this material is too scattered. JC notes that “cool URIs do not change”;
              ours too often do, which is not best practice. Council agreed that there must be an
              addressable version of the Guidelines for each release. Going forward, this includes
              our point releases (i.e., our sub-releases currently on a six-month cycle). So the
              vault should contain full snapshots of each of these releases.</p>
<p>LR asks whether it makes sense to release only the HTML pages of the Guidelines
              without releasing the corresponding schemas or file environment necessary for
              generating schemas. Consensus is that we should make available at least a <term>tei_all</term>
              environment so that users would be able to validate documents against arbitrary
              versions of the Guidelines.</p>
<p>Consensus: Council should request for reorganization of the Vault on tei-c.org, and
              should then take responsibility for ongoing maintenance of releases. Council should be
              <q>licensed</q> (DO) to work on this as part of our day-to-day activity, with a workflow
              that includes direct access to the technical staff at U of Virginia who can implement
              changes on the server side. We agree that we start Vault versioning as of the June
              2009 point release of the P5 Guidelines, and implement retroactive versioning as soon
              as possible thereafter.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
            General website organization and workflow</head>
<p>LB and DO note that there are outstanding needs for TEI website reorganization and
              enhancement that need to be addressed by the Web Committee. For example (LB), the new
              project list needs to be brought up to date, and should be more dynamic, with RSS
              feeds available. DO adds that in the near future we will be needing new Web
              functionality, namely an e-commerce server (for membership, ordering publications,
              etc.). [DS notes: this will need to be done so as to satisfy any U of Virginia
              policies for e-commerce hosting on University servers.] In addition, with the
              migration of the Vault to www.tei-c.org, which represents the major intellectual
              property of the TEI, we need formal agreements from Virginia for the commitment of
              resources to insure maintenance and preservation.</p>
<p>            <note><rs style="bold">DO</rs> will convey to the TEI Board the consensus that
              Council needs more formally defined access to tei-c.org, and will also propose adding
              LR to the Web Committee</note>
</p></div></div>
<div><head>
          Guideline Annotations</head>
<p>Question: should there be a formal facility to allow user comments on the Guidelines
            (primarily or only the element/attribute/class reference sections), along the lines of
            the “user contributed notes” feature on www.php.net? The purpose would be to allow users
            to provide examples of how they use TEI features, notes on best-practice usage, etc.
            Council agrees that (unlike the case on php.net) this should not be done within
            reference pages themselves, but rather via links to dedicated areas on the TEI Wiki.
            This can easily be done by batch-creating template pages on the Wiki, and having the
            Guidelines stylesheet generate links to them for each reference page. The only tricky
            technical issue is whether we can easily differentiate links to Wiki pages that have
            comments versus ones that are empty.</p>
        <note><rs style="bold">SR and JC</rs> will investigate implementation and report
            back to Council</note></div>
<div><head>
          TEI Tite</head>
<p>This item was an update on the status of <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI_Tite">TEI Tite</ref>.</p>
<p>There is some urgency over finalizing the recommended format of the TEI Tite
            customization, as the TEI Consortium received Mellon funding with a deadline to put out
            an RFP to conversion vendors interested in bidding on bulk conversion work using the
            Tite specifications. However, there is some confusion over how final recommendations for
            change have been gathered and implemented. The TEI in Libraries SIG has been working on
            this and forwarding suggestions to Perry Trolard, but PT is not able to implement them
            directly on Sourceforge.</p>
<p>Council agreed that as Tite is a formally recommended TEI customization, Council has
            technical authority over it. We need to vet and approve changes, then commit them to
            SourceForge.</p>
<p>There was some discussion and disagreement over whether Tite should be seen as a static
            object or as a basis for customization. Consensus was that (1) Tite as formally
            recommended by the TEI will be static within the context of a given contractual
            agreement between content owners and conversion vendors (as in the main RFP), but (2)
            individual projects may wish to customize Tite for their own purposes, and that is
            something we encourage.</p>
<p>          <note><rs style="bold">DO</rs> will issue a final call on TEI-L for comments on
            Tite. Council formally asserts control over Tite, and DO will ask PT to collect proposed
            changes to the existing Tite customization and forward them to Council for
            approval.</note></p></div>
<div><head>
          Proposal for new SIG: scientific bibliographies</head>
<p>LR presents this proposal, which is to approve a new Special Interest Group on
            scientific bibliographies with the goal of providing recommendations for the use of
              <gi>biblStruct</gi> for bibliographies in scientific/technical literature. LR notes
            that people are already using TEI for scientific publishing, so we need to put forth
            best practice recommendations and possibly schema modifications. The strategy is to
            demonstrate the usefulness of <gi>biblStruct</gi> as a way of demonstrating the power of
            TEI to other communities, as <emph>the</emph> XML format for these document structures. Council
            agrees on the utility of doing this; AC notes that we'll want to provide a specific
            tutorial on this use case.</p>
<p>APPROVED. As LR is already part of the proposed SIG, LB volunteers to be the official
            Council liaison.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
          Report on activities of Manuscript SIG</head>
<p>Elena Pierazzo (in absentia) presents a report on activities of the MS SIG. They have
            proposed some tweaks to manuscript elements, and will have a <ref target="http://www.i-d-e.de/genetic-editions-in-a-digital-framework">workshop on
              genetic editions</ref> in May 2009. </p>
<p>No action item, just be aware SIG is active.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
          Possible SIG on speech transcription</head>
<p>LB notes that two different communities in France are interested in working on
            improvements to Guidelines in this area. LR thinks that most people are quite happy w
            the current state of the Guidelines chapter, but there is a need for more work on
            marking synchronization with audio files. LB adds that a separate German group also
            feels there is serious need for revision. [action item??]</p>
</div>
<div><head>
          SIG grants</head>
<p>DO reports on the grants approved this year to provide funding for SIGs to support
            activities toward defined goals; Susan Schreibman issued a call for applications in
            March 2009. Two Council members, JC and DS, are serving on the committee that will
            evaluate and approve requests. This is an experimental program; if it works, the Board
            hopes to expand it.</p>
<p>Some discussion follows on other types of TEI funding. DO notes that funding is in
            principal available for any chartered TEI group, e.g. working groups. However, as LR
            points out, Council needs to have supervision over the funding of anything related to
            the TEI technical mission. Any grant involving tools, software, or the Guidelines is
            Council-related.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
          Stylesheets and Roma/Vesta</head>
<p>SR reported on his work with the new Vesta release, and the current transition to XSLT
            2.0 stylesheets for schema generation. (In the aftermath of Council discussion in Lyon
            and on tei-council, SR formally released to TEI-L the <ref target="https://listserv.brown.edu/archives/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0904&amp;L=TEI-L&amp;T=0&amp;O=D&amp;P=5859">roadmap / project plan for Roma and ODD processing</ref> based on Council agreement
            about our goals. The following paragraph briefly summarizes the Lyon portion of that
            discussion.)</p>
<p>Basic issue: once work began on Vesta, it was necessary to fork the XSLT stylesheets to
            XSLT, for use with Saxon in a Java environment. But Roma runs on libxslt, which supports
            only XSLT 1.0 [and which may remain there indefinitely—DS]. So: do we want to
            maintain the forked stylesheets, or are we willing to commit our ongoing resources to
            Vesta's XSLT 2 environment, with the goal of an eventual rewrite of Roma?</p>
<p>Council agrees it is undesirable to maintain more than one set of stylesheets. On the
            other hand, we do want to retain OpenOffice transforms as a TEI deliverable. SR proposes
            that we call WebRoma the <soCalled>ODD editor</soCalled>; Vesta has a different function. We should also
            make a distinction between TEI <term>services</term> and <term>interface</term> [one service might be
            instantiated in more than one interface]. DO suggests that the strategic direction as
            seen from our users' perspective is: there should be single locus for all TEI-related
            services; the technical backend should be opaque. LR: We implement it as an SOA
            (service-oriented architecture), meaning that we identify the processors that are behind
            the scene as services. DO: output services (in the non-technical sense) need to be
            bundled together, but not necessarily input services. The set of people who actually
            author and compile ODDs is much smaller than people who use TEI and generate output.</p>
<p>          <note><rs style="bold">SR</rs> will come up with a roadmap for the Roma family,
            propose it to Council, then disseminate it on TEI-L. [DONE as of 11 April].</note></p></div>
<div><head>
          Proposed Workshops on TEI</head>
<p>Most of the discussion focused on submitting a proposal to the European Science
            Foundation (ESF) for one of their <ref target="http://www.esf.org/activities/exploratory-workshops.html">Exploratory
              Workshops</ref>.</p>
<p>LB suggests that we could use a workshop as a way of beginning the planning for P6; we
            could also focus on the role of TEI with respect to various communities of research. AC
            says there is funding for science-driven research workshops (<term>science</term> in the sense of
            Wissenschaft) with a maximum 30 participants (who must be specified in advance),
            lasting 1-3 days. Deadline for proposals for the current grant cycle 30 April. The
            location is flexible. Requirements include wide representation from across Europe, and
            no more than five participants from the proposing country. Maximum funding available is
            €15K. AC feels that participants should be people who will be involved in future TEI
            development.</p>
<p>Strasbourg would be a possible host site; LR has access to space in the Tour
            Montparnasse, so Paris would be another. We might also investigate cosponsorship, e.g.
            with Adonis. </p>
<p>          <note><rs style="bold">LB and LR</rs> will draft a workshop proposal. AC will not
            be involved in writing the proposal, to avoid conflict of interest.</note></p></div>
<div><head>
          SourceForge bug and feature requests</head>
<p>(As secretary was participating in discussions on these items, notes are sketchy. See
            also any comments on SourceForge.)</p>
<list><label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2209933&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2209933</ref> content model of <gi>am</gi></label>
<item>
<p>Argument from use cases. Cannot put <gi>unclear</gi> etc. outside the <gi>am</gi>
                if you're using diplomatic transcription. LB objects that <gi>am</gi> includes a
                marker of abbreviation, seen on page but not used in transcription. Prototypical
                abbreviation is ‘.'. But use case is: 3-letter abbreviation marker where one is
                unclear. JC: let's modify documentation so people don't abuse this. We agree that
                usefulness outweighs the possibility of abuse.</p>
<p>APPROVED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2493417&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2493417</ref><gi>idno</gi> coverage.</label>
<item>
<p>We agree on the simple application + corresponding change in the prose. Change
                definition of <gi>idno</gi> to say it can be used to identify <emph>any part</emph> of
                a bibliographical description; 2nd, add it as a possible content model for author. LB/SR are
                not happy about <gi>idno</gi> as a child of <gi>author</gi>. LR suggests that in the
                scientific world we want to be able to create bibliographical entries that include
                  <gi>idno</gi>‘s that connect to our data, e.g. standard number for publication or
                author. LB: there are two solutions. Either we say <q>we've changed our mind about
                  <gi>idno</gi></q> and don't restrict; or we restrict the places where it is allowed.
                JC suggests: why can't we use <gi>ident</gi> for this purpose as it is already
                allowed? … maybe we need a special bibliographical phrase class (in order to get
                  <gi>ident</gi> inside <gi>author</gi>). There are various other elements inside a
                bibliography that can take identifiers. Consensus: we will add a bibl.Phrase model
                class, which will contain <gi>idno</gi>.</p>
<p>APPROVED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2517629&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2517629</ref> Guidelines: <att>type</att> and <att>resp</att> in
              <gi>note</gi></label>
<item>
<p>OK, accept as proposed.</p>
<p>APPROVED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2607768&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2607768</ref><gi>figure</gi> should be global</label>
<item>
<p>Rationale: <gi>graphic</gi> when not inline should be wrapped in a <gi>figure</gi>
                as best practice. Accept as proposed.</p>
<p>APPROVED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2673045&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2673045</ref> new attribute <att>rational</att> on <gi>num</gi></label>
<item>
<p>This was discussed in detail on tei-council and SF. The majority voted for adding
                  <att>valueType</att>. Consensus: we implement, with a closed value list:
                “decimal”, “float”, “ratio”.</p>
<p>APPROVED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2672530&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2672530</ref> Remove repository element requirement in msIdentifier</label>
<item>
<p>Fine; we will add to documentation of <gi>repository</gi> that it is not meant to
                indicate just any geographical location.</p>
<p>APPROVED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2242434&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2242434</ref> element for text suppressed by the editor</label>
<item>
<p>The proposal was for an element like <gi>suppressed</gi> with a function opposite
                to that of <gi>supplied</gi>. After discussion, council comes around to point of
                view that yes, <gi>supplied</gi> does perhaps require symmetry. But
                  <gi>suppress</gi> is not the best name; how about <gi>omit</gi>. This is
                semantically more neutral. Council does not totally agree that <gi>omit</gi> is
                needed when <gi>sic</gi> exists, but in the interest of flexibility, we can add it.
                We need actual use case examples.</p>
<p>DEFERRED: we will ask the proposers for actual use cases (and in particular, cases
                where typed <gi>sic</gi> would not be sufficient).</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=1954920&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">1954920</ref> (<att>role</att> to be returned to att.naming)</label>
<item>
<p>Agreed, add <att>role</att> to att.naming. [As LB notes in SF ticket, <q>att.naming
                needs reorganization</q>].</p>
<p>APPROVED.</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=1925127&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">1925127</ref>: Provide discussion of taxonomical names</label>
<item>
<p>Council sense is that it's too complex. LR: is it really role of TEI to figure this
                out? Or solicit advice from specialists? We don't have a proper TEI tool to
                represent full taxonomy. Suggest we leave open for now. No one has come up with a
                strong proposal. We need stronger set of use cases.</p>
<p>DENIED: close ticket</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=1933481&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">1933481</ref>: ODD needs a way to indicate deprecation at next major
              release</label>
<item>
<p>LR suggests that we simply add a <att>status</att> attribute in ODD to
                  <gi>elementSpec</gi> or <gi>attributeSpec</gi>. Discussion was inconclusive; the
                whole issue ties in with larger discussion about ODD format.</p>
<p>DEFER: leave ticket open.</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=1962972&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">1962972</ref>: new members for model.quoteLike</label>
<item>
<p>PB explains the context. LB thinks there's a good case to be made for using
                classes. All agree.</p>
<p>APPROVED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=1999652&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">1999652</ref>: Add <att>who</att> to <gi>quote</gi></label>
<item>
<p> LB thinks this is just a resurgence of basic problem that people mistakenly believe
                  <gi>q</gi> and <gi>quote</gi> are the same. But when <gi>quote</gi> is rightly
                understood as part of a bibliographic construct with <gi>cit</gi> available, a new
                attribute isn't needed.</p>
<p>DENIED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2055891&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2055891</ref>: Placement of Schematron rules </label>
<item>
<p>SR summarizes his proposal to add <gi>constraint</gi> as a child of
                  <gi>schemaSpec</gi>, <gi>elementSpec</gi>, <gi>attDef</gi>. Consensus is that we
                should implement; SR will come up with details before the next June release, in
                conjunction with Council. [See also below, Friday discussion; and discussion on
                tei-council, first week in April].</p>
<p>APPROVED pending implementation</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2525586&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2525586</ref>: <att>scope</att> attribute on <gi>rendition</gi> for CSS
              pseudo-elements</label>
<item>
<p>Was discussed in some detail <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2009/010618.html">via email</ref>. Accept. LB will incorporate DS's response in the SF ticket.</p>
<p>APPROVED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2531384&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2531384</ref>: Rationalise application of <att>target</att></label>
<item>
<p>DP presents. She likes Lou's suggestions. After discussion, decide we have to keep
                  <att>target</att> so as not to break things. Define a class to define
                  <att>target</att> values as one or more tokens; in cases where there must be only
                one, use Schematron. What about <att>cRef</att>? Leave it alone. Lou's ticket note:
                <q>make <att>target</att> point to 1:n, and define as class; enforce in
                Schematron</q>.</p>
<p>ACCEPTED</p>
</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2594174&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2594174</ref>: dimensions needs loosening up slightly</label>
<item>
<p>Per Lou's resolution on SF ticket: <q>Added new <gi>dim</gi> element, and class
                model.dimLike. Redefined <gi>dimensions</gi> content as <code>( dim*,
                model.dimLike_sequenceOptional)</code>. Updated discussion in MS accordingly. Updated at
                rev 5985</q>.</p>
<p>ACCEPTED</p>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
          Complex Sourceforge items</head>
<div>
          <p>  <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2372570&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2372570</ref>: element for punctuation marks</p>
<p>(In the course of long discussion of this request, we invited Alexey Lavrentev in to
              answer some questions and expand on his published remarks.)</p>
<p>We begin with discussion of what <gi>c</gi> represents. Is it a portion of a word, a
              subset of the hierarchy of linguistic characters; or is it “any character”? We need to
              discuss this to explain why we would have both <gi>c</gi> and <gi>punct</gi> if we add
              the latter. PS observes that we already have <gi>am</gi> as a special kind of
              character(s). Alexei is asking for things that mark syntactic boundaries. One problem
              is that boundary between syntactic and intraword punctuation is fluid. LR suggests the
              default solution is <gi>c</gi>, typed. People will have their own typology of
              punctuation marks. Also, we don't want to impose a Western view of punctuation on all
              texts. LR: we can identify a fringe of applications where <gi>c</gi> takes more than
              one grapheme. </p>
<p>(Here Alexei [AL] joined the meeting.) AL: you could say that all the tags
                <gi>w</gi>, <gi>m</gi>, <gi>s</gi>, etc. are syntactic sugar for <gi>seg</gi>.
                <gi>c</gi> is a building block for larger units. … One basic issue is two views:
                <gi>c</gi> is subset of <gi>w</gi>; <gi>c</gi> is also a segment that can alternate
              with <gi>w</gi>. … AL makes the case that <gi>c</gi> is a <soCalled>brick</soCalled> unit, whereas
              punctuation is like <soCalled>mortar</soCalled>. </p>
<p>Discussion of attributes on <gi>punct</gi>. <att>direction</att> is just intended as
              a statement of position; it doesn't establish the correspondence between two marks
              [which can be handled by existing mechanisms].</p>
<p>LR notes that there are existing projects that use
                <gi>w</gi><gi>c</gi><gi>w</gi><gi>c</gi>. So we must not break or deprecate that
              structure. LB wants to be sure that if we introduce <gi>punct</gi> we should make very
              clear what appropriate use cases. Avoid the <gi>q</gi>/<gi>quote</gi> confusion.</p>
<p>LR: the proposal would cause no harm, and we should also clarify use of <gi>c</gi>
              with some more examples. DS notes that the word “stop” in a telegram would be
                <gi>punct</gi>. LR says <q>we want to identify specific sequences as characters seen
              as symbols with a specific role</q>. In SMS language, etc. there are symbols that no
              longer count as <gi>punct</gi>. Would it be good to avoid <gi>punct</gi> as ambiguous
              with <gi>c</gi>, but instead add a more general-purpose <gi>symbol</gi> character?
              Discussion ensues on whether we do need the specific punctuation marker or a more
              general-purpose marker for symbolic language. LR would like a more general-purpose
              symbol marker. PS: <gi>symbol</gi> scares me because within human
              textuality, there are all sorts of uses for symbols. If we have <gi>symbol</gi> it
              should be on level of <gi>g</gi> maybe, low-level rather than high-level. LR: whatever
              our choice, we need to make our recommended usage clear to community in the
              Guidelines. LR: the natural language processing community has complained about TEI as
              not adequate for analysis. We should remember this community and make clear usage
              recommendations. LB: yes, what we need to say is <q><gi>c</gi> has been used for this
              purpose, but <gi>c</gi> is inherently ambiguous; <gi>punct</gi> is absolutely clear,
              etc.</q>. We don't want to deprecate <tag>c type=”punct”</tag>, but strongly suggest that
              the new element be used when people are doing natural language processing.</p>
<p>We must allow <gi>punct</gi> to have text in it. We should comment that segmentation
              for part-of-speech tagging is </p>
<egXML xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/Examples"><div class="pre_eg cdata"><w><punct>]]&gt;</punct></w></div></egXML>
<p>.</p>
<p>CONDITIONAL APPROVAL. Adopt, but we need to refine the proposal and usage guidelines.
              [LB has since proposed that the new element be called <gi>pc</gi>.]</p>
</div>
<div>
        <p>    <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2411994&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2411994</ref> Define canonical way of referencing TEI element definitions</p>
<p>DS had previously <ref target="http://lister.ei.virginia.edu/~drs2n/DOI/">submitted a
                note</ref> with a proposal for a possible implementation of DOIs for the Guidelines.
              However, group discussion showed that we feel DOIs are (1) too expensive and (2)
              probably overkill for our current needs. DS noted that a <soCalled>cool URI</soCalled> approach to
              canonical references, for example the way the W3C handle versions of their
              Recommendations, is in any case perhaps more in line with the needs of the Guidelines.
              We could always add DOIs at a later stage to an implementation of stable URIs (or
              adopt a different handle system altogether, if a promising candidate emerges).</p>
<p>How would we implement cool URIs?. Would the URL for the current version always be a
              redirect to an archived version? JC: <q>The moment SR makes a release, the version
                gets added to the <soCalled>current</soCalled> place and also to a static location
                in the vault.</q> (Thus the current version would always be addressable at two URLs;
              referencing the vault version assures stability.) When displayed in HTML, every piece
              of the Guidelines bearing an <att>xml:id</att> would come with a version number.</p>
<p>DO suggests we look into the W3C semantic recommendations for cool URIs. PB: One of
              the elements of the cool URI spec is that it shouldn't include something external. SR
              suggests that the cool URIs should not include ‘.html'. AC suggests that identifiers
              for subtopics should not be semantic, per recommendation in <ref target="http://nbn-resolving.de/urn:nbn:de:gbv:7-isbn-90-6984-508-3-8">“Report on
                Persistent Identifiers”</ref> from CERL. [But DS tends to disagree: the W3C, for
              example, use semantic fragment identifiers like
              <code>http://www.w3.org/TR/xquery/#id-path-expressions</code>]</p>
<p>            <note><rs style="bold">DS and JC</rs> will come up with recommendations for
              implementation.</note></p></div>
<div><p>
            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=1949503&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">1949503</ref>: <gi>relatedItem</gi></p>
<p>(proposal to allow <gi>biblScope</gi> as a child of <gi>relatedItem</gi>, LR)</p>
<p>Long discussion on this [which your secretary didn't transcribe well, sorry]. The
              consensus was to reject this proposal, but to make explicit that the correct usage is</p>
<egXML xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/Examples"><div class="pre_eg cdata"><bibl>…</bibl>]]&gt;</div></egXML>
<p> In addition, we
              will open a feature request to add <att>target</att> to <gi>relatedItem</gi> (done:
              see <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2728061&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2728061&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065</ref>
              and also <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2728068&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2728068&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065</ref>).</p>
<p>DENIED but provided for</p>
</div>
<div><p>
            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2002418&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2002418</ref> New element = <gi>clarification</gi>?</p>
<p>We don't feel it that the proposal is generalizable. We should expand discussion in
              Guidelines to cover encoding of such cases using the current tagset. (We also don't
              know how we could clearly explain usage of the proposed element.)</p>
<p>DENIED</p>
</div>
<div><head>
            2055891: Placement of Schematron rules (additional discussion, SR).</head>
<p>SR has identified a problem with <gi>constraint</gi> as proposed. If a
                <gi>constraint</gi> sits inside <gi>elementSpec</gi>, then redefining a constraint
              will replace the default constraint(s). So we will need to have an add/change mode.
              The <gi>constraint</gi> element should be able to contain various constraint
              languages; we have only Schematron right now. LB: question: are P5 Schematron
              constraints part of TEI Conformance? If so, then if someone redefines a constraint,
              wouldn't documents using the resulting schema be non-conforming? Another question:
              should the Guidelines prose duplicate the rules contained in the Schematron? Some
              disagreement: LR points out that in the past we have removed duplication in prose of
              rules provided by content model. BUT we can't expect people to understand Schematron
              rules. LR: shouldn't we decouple the issue of conformance from technical
              implementation? We should leave the possibility to delete constraints. JC: what about
              multiple constraint lists? LB: sure, you could have constraints in more than one
              language.</p>
<p>LR summarizes the requirements: </p>
<list>
<item>constraint with <att>ident</att></item>
<item>constraintList</item>
<item><att>scheme</att> appears only at the level of constrainList</item>
</list>
<p>LB: what happens if you put a constraint list in an attribute list? SR: should we
              allow <gi>constraint</gi> within an attribute class? (might have bad subeffects) A
              good use case: in att.typed, <att>type</att> and <att>subtype</att> should not be
              same. JC: we should certainly have <gi>constraint</gi> available on *Spec. </p>
<p>LR: we should let SR go ahead and implement the basic aspects. We agree about
                <gi>constraint</gi> at the <gi>elementSpec</gi> level; we can wait on
                <gi>classSpec</gi> and <gi>schemaSpec</gi> until we're sure they are doable.</p>
<p>AC: because we may allow other constraint languages, we should not permit abbreviated
              fragments of schema languages (i.e. ones that would not parse by themselves).</p>
<p>            <note><rs style="bold">SR</rs>: develop an initial implementation within the next
              month.</note></p></div>
<div><p>
            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=1933198&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">1933198</ref>: ‘precision' element needed</p>
<p>We have discussed this previously and there has been lengthy discussion on TEI-L. We
              take no action now, but</p>
<p>            <note><rs style="bold">all</rs>: Look again at the SourceForge proposal, get back
              to Council with any objections; solicit input from Tim Finney. [See followup
              discussion on tei-council, first week of April.]</note></p></div>

<div><head>
          Report on “Getting Started with TEI” (PB)</head>
<p>The document has not progressed as far as we wanted; 7 of 13 sections are drafted and
            ready for comments. PB proposes that if no one else volunteers, he will write the
            remainder. DS asks whether we should go outside Council for authors; PB thinks not. LB:
            do we want to internationalize the translation? JC/LR: we can think about it, don't want
            to have anyone start on it.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
          TEI and the “Standards World” (AC)</head>
<p>There is room for TEI to become better known in standards communities. There are
            various European agencies that have an interest in TEI; we should pursue our roles in
            them. On a higher level, we could promote TEI by giving funders more info on TEI, TEI
            best practices. (DO: this was mentioned by funders at the 2007 Members Meeting.) DO: we
            should be doing this, and also identifying agencies that are not requiring TEI, and
            explaining the benefits to them. But we are <emph>not</emph> in a position to do TEI certification.
            We're not an agency, don't have paid staff that can do this. </p>
<p>DO suggests that we prepare a package on digital resources and the TEI to share with
            agencies, and offer to give workshops. <q>The TEI can profile itself as a meta-research
            infrastructure. … We should be a research NGO</q>. [DS nominates this as the Quote of the
            Meeting.]</p>
<p>          <note><rs>AC, DO, LR [with JC and Julia Flanders]</rs>: talk further
            about drafting communications to outside agencies (approval for these will have to come
            from Board however)</note></p></div>
<div><head>
          Making TEI Examples more accessible</head>
<p>JC: As a follow-up from our Galway meeting, we might want to come up with a framework
            for indexing/retrieving TEI examples in the Guidelines (or even external ones). We want
            to be able from a reference page to be able to point to uses of examples. All examples
            in Guidelines should have <att>xml:id</att> and <att>xml:lang</att>. [SR feels the
            latter is unneeded because <att>xml:lang</att> is inherited. But LR feels that we should
            decouple the language of examples and the language of the enveloping Guidelines for
            modularity. JC notes that there are some examples that incorrectly inherit
            xml:lang=”en”]. LR suggestion we might move away from inherited examples in XML to a
            library stored outside and pointed to, carrying <att>xml:lang</att>. JC proposes
            decoupling examples from Guidelines and making them referenceable. </p>
<p>Counterarguments: (SR) this is not our most important task right now; (LB)
            decontextualized examples don't always make sense. (SR): The bigger problem is that
            examples we have are too small. LR: so we need some kind of way to externalize examples.
            DO: The first thing to do is to file a bug report on incorrect <att>xml:lang</att> on
            examples; then add a feature request to add <att>xml:lang</att> to all egXMl
            examples.</p>
<p>Council agrees it would be good to have an index to examples in the HTML format as well
            as in PDF. Also, a “click on show me other examples” link, to show all (?) available
            examples. [Since implemented by SR.]</p>
<p>SR points out that our HTML rendering of Guidelines is just one possible rendering; the
            reason we make our source open is so people can build on it if they want. So let's
            separate out HTML presentation from the collection of more examples.</p>
<p>          <note><rs>DS</rs> will gather a list of examples with incorrect
            (explicit or inherited) <att>xml:lang</att> values; JC, submit feature request to add
              <att>xml:lang</att> to all egXML elements.</note></p></div>
<div><head>
          TEI-ISO Project Report (SR)</head>
<p>The first stage of Oxford's work for the ISO was to show that TEI could describe an ISO
            standard; the second stage was lossless bidirectional translation between TEI and MS
            Word. This was achieved and demo'ed to standards bodies. The proposal then is to go on
            to a pilot project to implement some of the standards. (LR asks if there wasn't a
            standard prepared in XML recently; SR: yes, but not validated by ISO.) There were
            objections in stage 1 about the TEI table model (probably CALS tables would need to be
            used instead) and questions about math. LR notes that Vesta supports an ISO-looking
            document (but not ISO-approved, as SR notes). SR isn't sure that this project will go
            any further; Council should perhaps not spend more time on it right now. LR: can we say
            that the experiment shows that a subset of TEI is an appropriate tool for the task? SR:
            yes, because we understand the necessary structure and terminology, plus have the
            ability to customize. And the MS Word stuff demonstrates that there is a stylesheet
            framework available Word-TEI adequate for authoring.</p>
</div>
	</div>
</div></body></text></TEI>