<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2009-12"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2009-12" when="2009-12-07">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>7 December 2009</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM043</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21899</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <body>
	
		<head>TEI Council Meeting</head>		<milestone unit="unknown" rend="rule"/>
	

	<div>
		
		
<p>Attendees:</p>
<list>
<item>Brett Barney (BB)</item>
<item>Gabriel Bodard (GB)</item>
<item>Peter Boot (PB)</item>
<item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Matthew Driscoll (MD)</item>
<item>Kevin Hawkins (KH)</item>
<item>Martin Holmes (MH)</item>
<item>Julianne Nyhan (JN)</item>
<item>Daniel O’Donnell (DoD)</item>
<item>Elena Pierazzo (EP)</item>
<item>Dot Porter (DP)</item>
<item>Sebastian Rahtz (SR) – minutes</item>
<item>Laurent Romary (LR) – chair</item>
<item>Paul Schaffner (PS)</item>
<item>David Sewell (DS)</item>
</list>
<div><head>
	Introduction</head>
<p>Teleconference started at 1600 CET after a fair amount of to-ing and
      fro-ing with the Cisco Webex system being trialled at
      Oxford. Not a universally-admired setup :-} </p>
<p>LR welcomed new council members as well as ones staying and those
      leaving.</p>
<p>PB updated the meeting on the Getting Started
      document; as he will leave the Council shortly, he suggested that he
      do a final review the current draft and then hand it over to someone
      else. LB suggested JN might like to merge this with work on the TEI
      education journal. LR asked whether each topic in <hi style="italic">GS</hi> might be
      suitable for separate articles in TEI-EJ; 
      JN agreed that they might (pending the agreement of her co-Editor also).</p>
<p>The meeting was suspended at 16.18 due to impossible amounts
      of interference, with a request to
      reconvene at 16.30.</p>
<p>The meeting reconvened 16.32 via hispeed-conferencing as
      in previous meetings. The vast howlings and noises as if of
      Chesil Beach in a storm subsided, except for people who
      appeared to amuse themselves during the boring bits by moving furniture or performing
      motorcycle maintenance.</p>
<p>It seemed to be generally accepted that using the
      <hi style="italic">GS</hi> articles in TEI-EJ was probably the right way forward, but
      needed discussion. <note><rs>PB</rs> will liaise with JN.</note></p>
</div>
<div><head>
	Discussion of outstanding feature requests</head>
<p>In the record, the initial in [XX] indicates the council member
first speaking to the ticket. For full details of the request, see the
relevant ticket.</p>
<div><head>
  Bibliography related</head>
<list><label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2881416&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2881416</ref></label>
<item><label>add meeting to model.respLike
[DS]</label>: agreed to be non-controversial. Go GREEN</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2714682&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2714682</ref></label>
<item><label>permit <gi>biblScope</gi> as child or as
sibling of imprint [KH]</label>: more controversial. Eventually agreed
that KH, LR and LB would clear this up. Go GREEN-ish.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2798963&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2798963</ref></label>
<item><label>add @role to author [MH]</label>: It was argued that the
concept of author types does exist (eg composer or lyricist for a
musical, coder or designer for a computer programmer).  LB
counter-argued that <gi>author</gi> is deliberately specialist, and we
have other ways of showing contributions; noted that <gi>respStmt</gi>
is a general-purpose element for any intellectual contributions. In
the end, no-one actually objected to @role on <gi>author</gi>, by
making it a member of att.naming. Go GREEN.  For the longer-term,
  <note><rs>KH</rs> agreed to create a feature request analyzing the
relationship between <gi>author</gi>, <gi>editor</gi>, and
<gi>respStmt</gi>.</note></item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2812634&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2812634</ref></label>
<item><label>@docStatus on <gi>edition</gi>
[JC]</label>: why isn’t it in <gi>resptStmt</gi>, it was asked? DoD
wondered whether @xxStatus might not be wanted all over the
shop; and is @status the same as @type or not? Sufficient confusion to put
this decision off. Stay AMBER.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2728068&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2728068</ref></label>
<item><label>suggested values for <gi>relatedItem</gi><att>type</att>
[PS]</label>. OK. Go GREEN.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2728061&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2728061</ref></label>
<item><label>Add @target to relatedItem  [LB]</label>: are content and
@target combining, or mutually exclusive?  Generally agreed that the
latter is what we want — presence of @target means that the content must be
empty. Go GREEN.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2493417&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2493417</ref></label>
<item><label><gi>idno</gi> coverage [JN]</label>: the issue not seem to
have got any simpler since last discussed at the F2F in Lyon. It needs a larger
discussion around identifying authors. <note><rs>LR and JN</rs> agreed to take
this away and beat it around some more.</note></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
  Certainty/target/match issue</head>
<list><label>
<ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2862151&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2862151</ref>;
<ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2877940&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2877940</ref></label>
<item><label>Revisit use of @target</label>;
: the discussion was
rehearsed again as to whether we needed both @match and @target (ie
can we just use @target and XPointer), and whether @match should be
anchored at the document root or the current context. No-one really
seemed able to remember why we set the context to be the document
root; possibly a misunderstanding of XPath (cf long discussion on
TEI-L with Wendell Piez etc). LR asked whether
anyone had tried to implement the current setup (no answers; JC
admitted, however, he knew how to evaluate arbitrary XPath in XSLT 2.0
using the saxon:evaluate() extension function; see <ref target="http://blogs.oucs.ox.ac.uk/jamesc/2009/06/05/evaluate-a-string-as-an-xpath/"/>). GB and
SR pointed out that assuming the current context gives users a
valuable new facility of pointing at <q>here</q>. Vague agreement.
<note>LB to discuss with GB and SR, check that changing the default
context of @match would definitely work.</note>  Go GREEN if agreed.
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
  Manuscript/transcription-related</head>
<list><label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2900430&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2900430</ref></label>
<item><label>datatype of @scribe and @script  [EP]</label>: agreement
that URI pointing to a script record would be useful; might need a
<gi>scriptNote</gi> in the header (or the existing
<gi>taxonomy</gi>). Suggested that new pointing attributes @scriptRef
and @scribeRef should be added, to avoid breaking existing
documents. No objections. <note>EP and MD to provide
examples.</note> Go GREEN.</item>
<label><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2907038&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2907038</ref></label>
<item><label>permit collections to nest/repeat within msIdentifier
[EP]</label>: controversial, drawing in of breath by some. Others like
the idea of nesting. Go GREEN-ish. LB needs examples.</item>
</list>
</div>

</div>
<div><head>
  Next meeting</head>
<p>The meeting ended at 18.05 CET. Agreed to reconvene in w/s
  January 11th. LB requested people to be ready to discuss:</p>
<list>
<item>2811239:  new element ‘object’  [*DP]</item>
<item>2811234:  add @ref to ‘material’ [*DP]</item>
<item>2724997:  Cater for audio/video facsimile</item>
</list>
</div>
	</div>

	</body></text></TEI>