<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2010-04"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2010-04" from="2010-04-29" to="2010-04-30">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Dublin</placeName>, <date>29–30 April 2010</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM045</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21901</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
        <body>
	
		<head>Draft minutes of  Council meeting</head>		<milestone unit="unknown" rend="rule"/>
	

	<div>
		
		
<p>Attendees: </p>
<list>
<item>Brett Barney (BB)</item>
<item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Matthew Driscoll (MD)</item>
<item>Kevin Hawkins (KH)</item>
<item>Julianne Nyhan (JN)</item>
<item>Daniel O’Donnell (DoD)</item>
<item>Elena Pierazzo (EP)</item>
<item>Dot Porter (DP)</item>
<item>Sebastian Rahtz (SR) – minutes</item>
<item>Laurent Romary (LR) – chair</item>
<item>Susan Schreibman (SS)</item>
</list>
<div>
                <head>morning of 2010-04-29</head>
<div><head>
                    Review of Symposium</head>
<p><label>Meeting started at 9:30 WET.</label></p>
<p>JN presented an overview of the public Googledocs document, in which she had
                        recorded notes from the previous day’s <ref target="http://dho.ie/node/673">Symposium on TEI and Scholarly
                        Publishing</ref>. From the various presentations and discussing, she has distilled
                        points under two main headings: “Emerging themes” and “Specific issues with
                        P5.” She briefly summarized these.</p>
<p>LR asked the group to consider what implications these points have for the
                        Council. DO clarified a point raised about open-source publication and
                        anti-trust concerns, suggesting that US anti-trust laws present no real
                        barrier for cooperation of the kind the Council wants to promote.</p>
<p>LR noted that several projects are trying to create a TEI customization to
                        fit their publication workflows and wondered whether we should we put effort
                        into such a customization. SR asked whether, in doing so we would be, in
                        effect, re-creating the tagset of the National Library of Medicine (NLM). LR
                        noted that both Martin Holmes and LR have both worked with NLM mappings, so
                        we could start there. SR suggested the alternative of re-expressing the NLM
                        in a TEI ODD. KH noted that NLM is DTD only and therefore cannot use
                        namespaces. SR said that mapping NLM to TEI would require the use of lots of
                        attributes, which users don’t like to be forced to do. LR, however, said that
                        because NLM is so closely modeled upon TEI the mapping is really easy.
                        DO suggested that what we may need is a cooperation with NLM: We might get
                        the user community together first to discuss needs and then build the
                        customization, a la TEI TIte. LR argued that the features and needs for a
                        customization are already well-identified because customizations have
                        already been done in different places, so it might be the time to take what
                        each group has done, work out a single customization for consideration, and
                        present it for consideration. DO suggested that the real issue is to find
                        Council members who have the energy to drive the work. KH said that it’s not
                        a question of will but an uncertainty about what to do. He noted that in the
                        US, academic publishers’ prime concern is to do something that lets them
                        lose less money. JC asked why, in the last 20 years, the movement toward a
                        standard hasn’t come from the presses themselves. DO said that he was struck by
                        the fact that everyone in publishing has been/is focused on the page but
                        that, even so, there are a lot of people working at the presses who
                            <emph>are</emph> interested in the kinds of things we are interested in.
                        The problem is that no one has the money to fly people around to
                        collaborate. If we take the responsibility of guiding collaboration, things could
                        happen. Our role would be getting tool-makers together to talk about how
                        they’re doing what they’re doing. He sees Dot’s work on image markup as a
                        model. LR thinks we could pretty easily put on the table a first draft of an
                        ODD for publication. DO asked what it is they’re lacking, then, since in
                        doing what LR is proposing we would essentially be looking at their problem
                        and solving it for them. LR responded that what’s lacking are answers to
                        questions such as <q>Where do you put the abstract? How do you structure author
                        attribution/citation/bibligraphical notations? What should be used as
                        standardized type attribute values for divs? etc.</q> DO suggested that the best
                        way to address these issues would be to bring together energetic and
                        interested Council members with some of the people at the symposium. LR
                        disagreed, saying that there’s already a publishing SIG. Some discussion
                        followed about the advisability of putting out a call that would allow
                        people from both groups to volunteer. KH argued that we will only get buy-in
                        from publishers if the customization we produce comes with good tools (e.g.,
                        stylesheets for producing PDFs or Kindle-formatted texts), since the
                        publishers don’t have the luxury to support long-term development of such
                        tools. SR argued that TEI doesn’t have the resources to support tool
                        development either. DO argued that that’s where the people we saw yesterday
                        (i.e., those who are making workflows) come in. DO proposed that we convene
                        a summit of people from NLM, TEI, etc. LR acknowledged that we don’t have
                        the budget to implement tools, but noted that we have people who are working
                        on these issues, so we wouldn’t have to promise tools; we could just make
                        sure they’re on the agenda. SS suggested that an NEH startup grant might be
                        a good opportunity to get the thing off the ground. EP noted that she has
                        been involved in a project to convert CML (Cambridge) to TEI. There followed
                        short discussion of procedural matters involved in coordinating work on this
                        issue with the SIG and whether it would be best to structure the work
                        through the existing SIG, some sub-group of the Council, folks from
                        industry, or some combination of these. In general, DO favored asking
                        publishers to provide input so that we can build something appropriate, and
                        LR favored producing something to present to publishers. SR favored first
                        defining a manifesto before attempting a customization. KH proposed that a
                        sub-group of the Council (viz., JC, LB, SR, Martin Holmes, LR, and DO) write
                        up a vision (using Googledocs), present it for feedback, and then maybe
                        apply for grants. All agreed.</p>
<p>–10 minute break–</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Discussion of “green” feature requests</head>
<list><label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2971316&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2971316</ref> – Add @svg:points to att.coordinated</label>
<item>No objections; much rejoicing.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2969870&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2969870</ref> – <gi>surrogates</gi> for digital &amp; its
                            examples</label>
<item>General agreement.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2949985&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2949985</ref> – <gi>idno</gi> in more than just bibliographic
                            elements</label>
<item>Following a brief discussion in which LR et al. parsed the similarity
                            of <gi>idno</gi>, <gi>num</gi>, and <gi>term</gi>; in which LB opined
                            that a phrase-level <gi>idno</gi> would not be a good idea; and in which
                            the classes <gi>idno</gi> might be added to were discussed, it was
                            agreed that <gi>idno</gi> should be added to model.nameLike. </item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2728061&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2728061</ref> – Add @target to relatedItem</label>
<item>LB has restricted the scope of the original proposal, so the issue at
                            hand is whether the Council agrees with the proposed restriction. After
                            quite a lot of discussion, mostly about whether text and/or references
                            should be allowed within relatedItem, LB noted that there seemed to be
                            broad support for allowing for content within <gi>relatedItem</gi> and
                            that we should generate examples. </item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Discussion of “green” bugs</head>
<list><label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2946056&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2946056</ref> – Order of children of <gi>profileDesc</gi></label>
<item>After some debate such things as whether <gi>creation</gi> should
                                be repeatable, Council agreed to add it to model.profileDescPart,
                                perhaps also adding a Schematron rule to prevent its being repeated. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2863331&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2863331</ref> – ‘Used by’ section empty in
                                model.physDescPart</label>
<item>Not controversial; SR knows has this on his to-do list to
                                investigate and fix.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Discussion of “amber” feature requests</head>
<list><label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2976608&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2976608</ref> – Add <gi>ref</gi> as a child of
                                    <gi>analytic</gi>, <gi>monogr</gi> and <gi>series</gi></label>
<item>Numerous example use cases were put forth, and the Council agreed
                                to the change as proposed. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2973254&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2973254</ref> – Allow @target (or <gi>ptr</gi>) on
                                    <gi>divGen</gi></label>
<item>DO et al. argued that this request would amount to a hack for
                                replicating the functionality of XInclude. JC pointed out that the
                                TEI website uses OpenCMS, which doesn’t allow XInclude. Council
                                members generally agreed that, while hacks could be countenanced in
                                such situations, they shouldn’t be written into the spec. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2940838&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2940838</ref> – CALS for TEI</label>
<item>This request grows out of a discussion between LR and SR regarding
                                Sebastian’s use of CALS in ISO. LR clarified that the request isn’t
                                that we take up responsibility for CALS itself. In response to KH’s
                                question whether the proposal is that we “make CALS available” just
                                via a reference in the prose of the guidelines, LR responded that he
                                would like to see, at minimum, something in Roma to allow CALS. SR
                                opined that perhaps no action by the Council was needed. After
                                further discussion of whether we should support CALS through the TEI
                                Sourceforge site. It was decided that this request should be added
                                to the roster for further discussion later in the meeting. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2925145&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2925145</ref> – Generic dating class</label>
<item>Following a summary of the request by LB, JC noted that it’s not
                                the TEI that’s saying you have to use the Gregorian calendar, but
                                ISO. DO pointed out that we’ve done this sort of things for
                                    <gi>dimension</gi> (@unit). Observing that the request obviously
                                warrants debate, LR moved the request to the roster for later
                                discussion.</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2919640&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2919640</ref> – Global @facsKey</label>
<item>It was agreed to close this ticket, as @facs currently permits any
                                of the 3 options Sebastian outlined in his comment. The Council
                                favored Sebastian’s choice “a” and agreed that the guidelines should
                                be amended to include recommendations and/or examples regarding how
                                to implement this suggestion. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=29097660&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2909766</ref> – Make <gi>del</gi> and <gi>add</gi> (etc)
                                dateable</label>
<item>On the advice of SR, the Council decided to defer further
                                discussion of this request until they had an opportunity to consider
                                the recommendations of the working group on genetic editions. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2890254&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2890254</ref> – Ability to define new element with same name as
                                an existing</label>
<item>It was decided to defer further discussion of this request until
                                after the discussion of ODD.</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=859355&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">859355</ref> – <gi>subst</gi> should permit textual
                                data</label>
<item>It was decided to defer further discussion of this request until
                                after consideration of the recommendations of the working group on
                                genetic editions.</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2859183&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2859183</ref> – Make all milestoneLike elements
                                spanning</label>
<item>It was decided to defer further discussion of this request until
                                after consideration of the recommendations of the working group on
                                genetic editions.</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2834511 2834511&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2834511 2834511</ref> – Add more elements to att.spanning with
                                schematron constraint</label>
<item>It was decided to defer further discussion of this request until
                                after consideration of the recommendations of the working group on
                                genetic editions. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2834505 2834505&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2834505 2834505</ref> – @cert on choice and
                                model.choicePart</label>
<item>JC clarified the rationale and LB suggested that the desired
                                facility already exists. As there was some disagreement, it was
                                decided that this request should be added to the roster for further
                                discussion later in the meeting. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2812634 2812634&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2812634 2812634</ref> – @docStatus on <gi>edition</gi></label>
<item>All that we need is for someone to write some prose for the
                                documentation.</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2811239 2811239&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2811239 2811239</ref> – New element ‘object’</label>
<item>There were quite a few different opinions expressed about what’s
                                desired and/or proposed. Lou suggested making the request red. LA
                                suggested, instead, that we ask Gabby to provide clarification,
                                after which the Council will reconsider the request. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2811239 2811234&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2811239 2811234</ref> – Add @ref to ‘material’</label>
<item>No objections.</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2794512 2794512&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2794512 2794512</ref> – Move <gi>space</gi> to core
                                module</label>
<item>LB suggested a revised proposal: a new element (perhaps named
                                “spacer”) be added to the core module. After some discussion of
                                whether <gi>milestone</gi> is what’s wanted, it was agreed that the
                                request warrants more discussion. </item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2783323 2783323&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2783323 2783323</ref> – Add @from and @to to choice</label>
<item>It was decided that this request should be added to the roster for
                                further discussion later in the meeting.</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2531384 2531384&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2531384 2531384</ref> – Rationalise application of
                                @target</label>
<item>It was decided that this request should be added to the roster for
                                further discussion later in the meeting.</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2493417 2493417&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2493417 2493417</ref> – <gi>idno</gi> coverage</label>
<item>It was decided that this request should be added to the roster for
                                further discussion later in the meeting.</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2298442 2298442&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2298442 2298442</ref> – ODD should customize ODD</label>
<item>It was decided that further discussion of this request should be
                                deferred until after discussion of ODD+.</item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div>
                    <head>afternoon of <date>2010-04-29</date></head>
<p>Presentation of Genetic Workgroup Proposal (EP)</p>
<p>3 parts to proposal:</p>
<list>
<item>Sections 1-5: Addition of documentary view of text to main TEI
                            structure</item>
<item>Sections 6-10: proposals for additions to transcription module</item>
<item>Genetic encoding</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Discussion</head>
<p>DP pointed out problem that @reason is almost exactly the same as @cause.</p>
<p>Discussion of whether tei:subst should be able to contain cdata: general
                        reluctance.</p>
<p>Issue of @instant: this indicates immediate correction at given stage;
                        values=true|fault</p>
<p>DO notes relative rarity of attributes with true|false values in TEI;
                        suggests that it might be better to have a more generic attr for which
                        “instantaneous” is a value as this will allow for the inevitable request for
                        additional values from the community.</p>
<p>Proposals on Genetic Encoding per se (i.e. stages and the like). This will
                        await the finishing of the collation and apparatus modules.</p>
<p>Issue with naming of proposed stage elements noted: stageNote, for example,
                        is a well-known type of text structure in theatre.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Action and Next Steps</head>
<list>
<item>The council accepts transcription group report in principle,
                                recognising that significant changes may be still necessary.</item>
<item>The council would like to publish the proposal for use by the
                                community, on condition that it is recognised that changes may still
                                be made that break initial material.</item>
<item>The council will break the sections into SF tickets as proposed by
                                Lou (broad terms) and James and Elena (specific items that could be
                                broken off into non-controversial tickets).</item>
</list>
<div><head>
                        Bibl Report (LR, KH, MH)</head>
<p>Most of the council discussion focussed on reviewing the
                                    principles proposed by the group.</p>
<p>Council disagreed with proposal to use examples to suggest
                                    good practice (by suppressing examples of alternate coding). It
                                    felt it was important to be explicit in the text as well about
                                    what was good and bad practice. </p>
<p>To avoid breaking existing documents (and recognising that
                                    bibliographic data can come in a variety of forms, some of which
                                    make it necessary to accept less than optimal encodings), we
                                    will recommend rather than require the practices suggested by
                                    the sub-committee.</p>
<p>The following are tied to the corresponding points in the
                                    committee’s report:</p>
<list>
<item>1) The above meta principles apply</item>
<item>2) DITTO</item>
<item>3) Accepted with the exception of name-internal punctuation: e.g.
                            O’Donnell, Smith-Marbles, E. B. White</item>
<item>4) Same as 1: yes subject to meta-conditions.</item>
<item>5) accept</item>
<item>6) [Get Kevin’s summary]</item>
<item>7) Leave as is but acknowledge that life is difficult: e.g. you might
                            well have mixed blbstruct and bibls. Leave example.</item>
<item>8) The failure to reflect the proposed values for @type as listed in the
                            guidelines was a bug. But the larger issues about article scope vs.
                            actual citation is more complicated and is to be reexamined by the
                            sub-committee.</item>
</list>
<p>Lou and Kevin are to work and implement the easy issues in the odds;
                            sub-committee is to clean up document in light of discussion and return
                            to council with a clean version by June 15, with comments to follow by a
                            deadline to be determined.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div>
                    <head>morning of 2010-04-30</head>
<div><head>
                        Reports of small-group discussions of feature requests</head>
<p>Council members met in groups of two or three to discuss various tickets
                            that were unresolved after yesterday’s discussions. Below are notes from
                            reporting back.</p>
<list><label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2940838&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">CALS for TEI (2940838)</ref></label>
<item>
<p>Laurent reported that he, Dan, and Kevin decided on these
                                    things to do: (1) add a reference to CALS in the Guidelines as
                                    an alternative way to encode tables and (2) use Sebastian’s ODD
                                    that he developed for CALS as part of his work with ISO [?] to
                                    include in the TEI (much like MathML and SVG in the TEI). </p>
<p>Sebastian noted that we actually have a private re-implementation
                                    of MathML and SVG by incorporating these from the standard [at
                                    the time of ODD generation?]. He also noted that “CALS” can mean
                                    many things, not all of which are clearly defined, but most
                                    people use it to refer to the CALS exchange model, which is
                                    well-specified. He said we need to talk to Norm Walsh [who is
                                    our best contact for CALS].</p>
<p>Laurent said the third thing to do is to contact Norm Walsh.</p>
<p>Dan asked Sebastian whether his ODD needs polishing before public
                                    distribution. Sebastian replied that ____and said he just needs
                                    a namespace to use for CALS elements.</p>
<p>Lou asked to clarify that there was consensus not to include CALS
                                    elements in the Guidelines. Everyone agreed that we would not do
                                    so at this time.</p>
</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2925145&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">Generic dates (2925145)</ref></label>
<item>
<p>Dot reported that she, Elena, and James discussed a ticket
                                    proposing to create att.datable.generic for normalizing dates
                                    using non-Gregorian calendars and dating systems. She said they
                                    like the idea but are unsure of implementation. James added that
                                    the datatype would need to be so loose that it basically becomes
                                    free text.</p>
<p>Elena said that ____ would need a new date element.</p>
<p>James said that the ticket proposes a new form of canonical
                                    referencing, which Elena noted would need to be defined in the
                                    header.</p>
<p>Laurent asked whether we should attempt to rework the proposal or
                                    send it back to the author to re-propose in a different form.
                                    Dan replied that there’s a risk that a new proposal would be
                                    less TEI-like.</p>
<p>After a discussion, it was agreed that Elena would summarize the
                                    possible ways forward [for the proposer of the ticket]. Lou
                                    asked her to monitor the ticket for future discussion and
                                    proposals.</p>
</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2834505&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">Allow @cert on choice and model.choicePart
                                (2834505)</ref></label>
<item>
<p>Julianne reported that she and Brett discussed this ticket,
                                    which included an alternative suggestion in the comment to allow
                                    @cert on seg. She and Brett did not like the latter idea, but
                                    they also didn’t like the original proposal since too many
                                    attributes would be allowed on choice and model.choicePart.</p>
<p>Instead, Julianne and Brett proposed to make all elements in
                                    model.choicePart members of att.responsibility.</p>
</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2783323&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">Allow @to and @from on choice (2783323)</ref></label>
<item>
<p>Julianne reported that she and Brett also discussed this
                                    ticket. She said the proposal is in the spirit of the TEI, but
                                    she noted that some good alternative encodings were also
                                    suggested on the ticket. She said they would like to know what
                                    Christian Wittern (who proposed the ticket) thinks of the
                                    alternative encodings. She noted that the Guidelines give no
                                    examples of @to and @from on app, so it’s hard to compare the
                                    alternatives.</p>
<p>Dan said that @to and @from are on app because of the possibility
                                    of there being a lemma, whereas choice doesn’t have these
                                    because it doesn’t assume the existence of a lemma.</p>
<p>Brett summarized the use case given in the ticket. Elena noted
                                    that the proposal provides a simple mechanism for accomplishing
                                    something like stand-off markup, but she said it’s not clear why
                                    we wouldn’t allow these attributes on all elements. Laurent and
                                    Lou agreed that we need a more generic standoff mechanism and
                                    shouldn’t create a hack for use only on choice.</p>
<p>Dan noted that, for the use proposed, that there are existing
                                    mechanisms (@ref and @key) for pointing to controlled
                                    vocabularies and an existing mechanism (app) for encoding a
                                    lemma.</p>
</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2493417&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">Allowing non-numbers in <gi>idno</gi>s and allowing <gi>idno</gi> in <gi>author</gi>
                                    (2493417)</ref></label>
<item>
<p>Sebastian reported that his group discussed a proposal to allow
                                <gi>idno</gi> to contain non-numeric identifiers such as URIs and DOIs.
                                His group agreed with this proposal to add <gi>idno</gi> to
                                    model.nameLike.</p>
<p>As for allowing <gi>idno</gi> in <gi>author</gi>, the group realized that <gi>author</gi>
                                    already has a content model that appears more flexible than
                                    desired (for example, allowing <gi>add</gi> and <gi>del</gi>), so they proposed to
                                    correct this by changing the content model of <gi>author</gi> of
                                    model.limitedPhrase. Kevin gave a use case for <gi>add</gi> and <gi>del</gi>
                                    within <gi>author</gi>: encoding a typewriter manuscript of a draft of a
                                    work with a bibliography, where the bibliographic citations are
                                    encoded using <gi>bibl</gi> or <gi>biblStruct</gi>, in which the author made
                                    corrections to author names.</p>
<p>After discussion, consensus was reached to no longer change the
                                    content model to model.limitedPhrase but still allow <gi>idno</gi> in <gi>author</gi>. Sebastian noted that this will have the side-effect of
                                    allowing people to use <gi>idno</gi> anywhere they might use <gi>author</gi> (not
                                    just within a <gi>bibl</gi> or <gi>biblStruct</gi>). He questioned whether we
                                    really want to do this. There was discussion.</p>
<p>Lou noted that having <gi>idno</gi> as a child of <gi>author</gi> goes against the
                                    principle voiced yesterday that elements should describe their
                                    parent. Kevin said there are many ways in which markup requires
                                    human inference to fully understand it and that this surely is
                                    not the only place where a TEI element does not describe the
                                    parent.</p>
<p>It was decided to create a separate feature request for ____.</p>
</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2794512&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">Space in core module (2794512)</ref></label>
<item>
<p>Dan said the issue is that the example is actually a
                                    transcription: the space is important because it appears in the
                                    layout not because it has a rhetorical or linguistic
                                    meaning–e.g. the leading space in a indented paragraph. So if
                                    it is important, you should invoke transcription. The confusion
                                    is that <gi>gap</gi> has two meanings one appropriate to transcription
                                    and one appropriate to non-transcription circumstances (such as
                                    sampling). Gap was originally omit (sampling) but rename
                                    expanded semantically to cover the transcription situation in
                                    the move from P2-P3.</p>
<p>We need to indicate in the Guidelines that <gi>gap</gi> has two distinct
                                    meanings: one appropriate strictly to transcription
                                    (illegible//missing) and the other (sampling) more generally
                                    applicable. We might also want to consider resurrecting P2’s
                                    omit for the sampling application and say that gap should be
                                    used only for transcription (reversing the P3 decision).</p>
<p>Dot said that we want to recommend to David Sewell (the ticket
                                    submitter) that he use <gi>space</gi> (from the transcription
                                    module).</p>
</item>
<label>
                                <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2531384&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">target/targets (perhaps
                                    ticket number 2531384?)</ref></label>
<item>
<p> Lou reported that there are 8 cases in the Guidelines in which
                                    @target takes a single value and 8 others in which it takes 2.
                                    Only 4 of these instances have the attribute value defined by an
                                    attribute class. His group proposed to introduce an attribute
                                    class for all instances of this attribute which would allow 1 to
                                    many values. However, the prose of the Guidelines will need to
                                    explain that for some elements, it doesn’t make sense to have
                                    multiple values for @target.</p>
<p>Once this change is made, it will no longer make sense to use the
                                    @targets attribute. We will leave this attribute in the
                                    Guidelines but discourage its use. The three elements that have
                                    the @targets attribute should be added to the new attribute
                                    class.</p>
<p>It was also agreed that the discussion of cRef on the ticket
                                    should be “spun off” into a different ticket.</p>
</item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div><head>
                    Hyphenation (and orthographical changes at line breaks)</head>
<p>Lou summarized the debate on appropriate use of the soft hyphen character,
                        which is closely related to the question of how to encode hyphenation when
                        also encoding line breaks.</p>
<p>As he explained, if you are transcribing early printed books with hyphens at
                        the end of lines, there are a number of ways to do it. If your goal is to
                        transcribe text, including hyphens, faithfully or to encode the text in a
                        way that will allow you to process lexical items (generally speaking, words)
                        without marking up these words with w elements, you will need to represent
                        hyphenation in the source document.</p>
<p>If your encoding will mark line breaks (using <gi>lb</gi>), this complicates the
                        method for encoding hyphenation and requires any tokenization software to be
                        capable of ignoring elements that can appear within words (like <gi>lb</gi>).
                        Alternatively, a derived text with <gi>lb</gi> and other intraword elements removed
                        could be produced for the concordance software from the master encoded
                        text.</p>
<p>In short, the Guidelines are currently not helpful in giving guidance on
                        encoding hyphens that appear to be accidents of line breaks (where a hyphen
                        would not appear in the word had there not been a line break). It has been
                        suggested to use the Unicode soft hyphen character for these cases, and Lou
                        initially thought this would be appropriate; however, Deborah Anderson asked
                        senior Unicode people about this and they told us that use of the soft
                        hyphen for such cases is inappropriate. (The soft hyphen is meant for cases
                        where processing software might choose to break a word, not where it was
                        previously broken.)</p>
<p>If we instead used the <gi>lb</gi> element, how would you indicate whether the word
                        was broken across lines? You might use the type attribute to indicate
                        whether a lexical unit has been broken by the hyphen [as recommended in
                        [http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ref-lb.html] the element
                        definition for the <gi>lb</gi> element], use whitespace before the element, or use
                        the rend attrbute to describe the hyphenation. Lou suggested using the type
                        attribute to indicate whether the hyphen marks the boundary between lexical
                        items and the rend attribute to describe how this boundary is indicated
                        (using a hyphen, semicolon, etc.). With this method, no hyphen is left as
                        character data in the XML document.</p>
<p>Elena said this is exactly how the Austen project handled hyphenation.</p>
<p>[Alternatively, the hyphen could be left in the text and no rend attribute
                        used.]</p>
<p>Lou continued that this leaves the problem of handling hyphenation of words
                        across line breaks in languages like Dutch and German, where letters within
                        the word are sometimes duplicated before and after the hyphen. Juliana noted
                        that Old Irish did something similar.</p>
<p>After discussion, it was decided to use the choice element to handle such
                        cases.</p>
<p>Lou said that it’s not clear where to put the lb element and said it would
                        seem you would need to repeat it. Brett suggested a standoff choice element.
                        Elena said that the Austen project used xml:id and corresp. Matthew said
                        that [some project he was involved in] used sameAs with xml:id.</p>
<p>Brett noted that we still haven’t given advice on how to handle ambiguous
                        cases (where it’s not clear whether the source document’s author would have
                        used a hyphen had there not been a line break).</p>
<p>After discussion, it was decided that users could use any of the following
                        values for the rend attribute for cases of ambiguity:</p>
<list>
<item>hyphen</item>
<item>soft or hard hyphen</item>
<item>ambiguous</item>
<item>–</item>
</list>
<p>Lou asked whether the Council needs to give advice to ____ or to those
                        revising the Best Practices for TEI in Libraries (both of which had
                        questions about this issue). Kevin said those working on the Best Practices
                        would use the Council decision in order to revise their work.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    ODD (r)evolutions</head>
<p>Sebastian said several tickets have been submitted for problems with and
                        suggestions for the ODD architecture. A mailing list [“tei-meta”] was formed
                        to discuss the future of the ODD system, but there was little discussion. He
                        summarized the desired changes that were detailed in a message to the list
                        on 2010-04-02.</p>
<p>Laurent noted that the proposal for including and excluding elements
                        individually assumes that there’s something behind ____ that is pointed
                        to.</p>
<p>There was discussion of the proposed changes.</p>
<p>Dan noted that these changes work best for elements that are in classes but
                        asked how it would affect elements not in classes. There was further
                        discussion, during which Sebastian said that there would need to be a “magic
                        module” — a TEI module that would automatically select ___.</p>
<p>There was further discussion.</p>
<p>Laurent asked whether we should provide an explicit mechanism to say which
                        ___ [is/are] in the TEI [module?].</p>
<p>There was much further discussion.</p>
<p>Dan and Laurent said we need to have the source [of what?] specify itself to
                        avoid ambiguity. Sebastian disagreed that there’s any ambiguity.</p>
<p>Brett asked whether all elements would be included or excluded by default.
                        Sebastian said that currently _____.</p>
<p>There was a discussion on the merits of including or excluding elements as
                        you go while constructing a project-specific schema.</p>
<p>Council agreed to support the the further development of ODD.</p>
<p>Sebastian noted that we will have a problem with combining elements with the
                        same name from different namespaces. Currently, our classes are named after
                        exemplary elements, but it wouldn’t be clear which namespace these exemplary
                        elements belong to. He suggested three ways to fix this:</p>
<list>
<item>Change the way model classes are specified in the ODDs. This
                            unfortunately breaks any ODDs currently in use.</item>
<item>Use namespaces in the names of model classes. This would not be valid
                            RelaxNG, but it’s perhaps such a feature could be suggested to the
                            RelaxNG developers.</item>
<item>Create fake namespaces within the names of model classes, perhaps
                            using the raised dot Unicode character as a delimiter (since it’s one of
                            the few characters allowed where needed).</item>
</list>
<p>Kevin suggested choosing the first option but adding a feature to Roma that
                        will upgrade any existing ODDs when they are uploaded to use the new system
                        of model classes.</p>
<p>Dan asked whether the first solution still leaves the problem of the third
                        solution. He suggested a fourth solution: adding an attribute (perhaps
                        called “prefix”) to the element specification in the ODD language.</p>
<p>After discussion, Council decided that Sebastian will choose the best way to
                        handle homonymous elements from different namespaces. Dan added that he
                        should strive to make ODD mechanisms generalizable beyond the TEI.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    afternoon of 2010-04-30</head>
<p><label>Reconvened at app. 1:15</label></p>
<p>On LR’s suggestion, the council reviewed the amber bug reports and summarized
                        each.</p>
<list><label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2964254&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2964254</ref></label>
<item>KH summarized, saying that according to element definition of
                                <gi>keywords</gi>, “term” is misused. Short discussion regarding the
                            location of the problem in the guidelines followed.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2963461&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2963461</ref></label>
<item>SR: This is an implementation problem.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2955059&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2955059</ref></label>
<item>Discussion of history of use. Conclusion is for LB to clear up
                            discussion of use cases in the guidelines.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2945206&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2945206</ref></label>
<item>Problem with Vesta</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2938882&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2938882</ref></label>
<item>Problem with Vesta</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2938735&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2938735</ref></label>
<item>LB: For historical reasons, @hand of att.transcriptional is declared
                            as data.pointer, but the @new <gi>handShift</gi> is declared as
                            data.code. It was decided that this would be treated further in the
                            break-out sessions</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2932853&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2932853</ref></label>
<item>Agreed to make consistent (see LB’s comment at SF)</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2915506&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2915506</ref></label>
<item>LB summarized J Walsh’s use case, which involved use of <gi>bibl</gi>
                            in tabular data. LB opined that this was tag abuse. Council members were
                            unable to imagine alternative scenarios in which label as described
                            might need <gi>bibl</gi>. SR floated alternative suggestion of including
                                <gi>bibl</gi> in macro.phraseSec. No need for changes of any kind at
                            this time.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2900430&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2900430</ref></label>
<item>EP and DO favor first proposal. LB noted that redefining will break
                            backward compatibility. EP noted that the second proposal
                                (<gi>scriptNotes</gi> with <gi>scriptNote</gi> children) wouldn’t
                            break backward compatibility. LR proposed that for now we agree that a
                            mechanism is needed but that we defer a decision about the specifics
                            until the key/ref decisions have been made. Agreed.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2714682&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2714682</ref></label>
<item>KH: Compassed by the proposals and actions put forth yesterday.</item>
</list>
<p><label>Breakout</label></p>
<p/>
<p><label>Reconvened at 2:05</label></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    First report (EP)</head>
<list>
<item>Propose using @hand and deprecate @new on <gi>handShift</gi></item>
<item>Propose rejecting the request to make @hand global attribute. Reason:
                            doesn’t solve the overlapping problem.</item>
<item>Propose revising the guidelines to recommend using <gi>handShift</gi>
                            at the beginning if you will use it later.</item>
<item>Propose revising the guidelines to recommend similar use of all
                            milestone elements.</item>
</list>
<p>LB brought up the use-case of the First Folio, but he agreed after discussion
                        that it doesn’t present a problem.</p>
<p>Propose a new element for quire-breaks. </p>
<list>
<item>[Some debate]</item>
<item>LR Noted that this has already been added as a SF ticket</item>
<item>EP also noted that the issue of uncertainty whether a hand is A or B
                            was not addressed.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Second report (KH)</head>
<list><label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;aid=2900430&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2900430</ref></label>
<item>Decided they prefer having one or more <gi>term</gi> elements w/in
                                <gi>keywords</gi>. Should you believe that there are nested terms in
                            a compound subject term like “History — Russia”, such is already
                            allowed by nesting term elements. Examples in guidelines will need to be
                            changed.</item>
</list>
<p>LR: We have thus dealt with all of the amber bugs &amp; feature requests.</p>
<p>2:20</p>
<p>LR: Would like to treat @key / @ref and deprecation mechanisms.</p>
<p><label>–small break–</label></p>
<p>LR: We need a way to have a “soft” deprecation, a way of explaining to the
                        community that they shouldn’t use a certain practice that was formerly
                        allowed/recommended. We don’t want to enforce a strict mechanism (one that
                        breaks compatibility). Proposes that in future (minutes, etc.) we use
                        “deprecation” in this way.</p>
<p>[Discussion of where the deprecation takes place. DO, e.g., floats idea of an
                        appendix in which all things marked as deprecated are gathered.]</p>
<p>General agreement that we need a formal way of marking the deprecation (e.g.,
                            <tag>note type=”deprecated”</tag>).</p>
<p>DO: proposes a small working group, but this proposal was not met w/
                        enthusiasm.</p>
<p>Discussion of creating some way to flag not only deprecated practice but also
                        recommended practice. Reference to ISO and W3C uses of “required” etc.</p>
<p>LB: We had two ways of noting the canonical home of an item: @key or @ref.
                        John Walsh wanted a “magic token” pointer for @facsKey. Occurred to folks
                        that URIs need not be URL. Proposal is to deprecate @key and make clear that
                        @ref can be used.</p>
<p>SB: If there are places where only @key is available, do we add @ref
                        (moduleRef)? Do we recommend a way to compose the “magic token”?</p>
<p>LB: There’s a syntax for URN’s, so that’s one option.</p>
<p>LR: What are the opinions of folks outside the TEI?</p>
<p>LB: Some geeks have said it’s OK. Objections incl. that we should use
                        registered URNs.</p>
<p>Discussion about – persistence assumption in URN scheme.</p>
<p>LB: Proposal is to continue to allow @ref to use A URI, which can be a URN,
                        but it doesn’t have to be.</p>
<p>JC: Do people think that the TEI should be registering themselves as a proper
                        URN?</p>
<p>[Seems to be affirmation]</p>
<p>SR: Original problem that John Walsh raises can be solved other ways, too.
                        E.g., he can use a local web service that resolves an arbitrary
                        identifier.</p>
<p>KH: Or we could also recommend that users register a URN.</p>
<p>[People seem to like this option]</p>
<p>KH: Are we OK withLou’s recommendation that we prefer @ref?</p>
<p>[Unanymous agreement]</p>
<p>LR: Issue of synonyms (e.g., @lemmaRef vs. other elements that just use
                        @ref).</p>
<p>KH: We should probably also change examples in the guidelines that use (only)
                        @key (to add also examples w/ @ref).</p>
<p>LR: Summary: We have a set of guidelines for dealing w/ @key at large. This
                        will allow us to deal with several outstanding issues: </p>
<list>
<item>If the semantics of the @ref are implied, you just call it @ref;
                                otherwise, (e.g., scribeRef, @lemmaRef).</item>
<item>We recommend anchoring URN mechanism when possible, but
                                unregistered URNs are allowed (and allowed by W3C as well).</item>
<item>We will change the guidelines.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Wrap-up</head>
<p>SR: Do board members have anything they want to the Council to consider?</p>
<p>SS: Encouraging participation of Council members in the SIGs.</p>
<p>DO: Proposes assigning new Council members to a SIG and expect a report.</p>
<p>[Discussion of the problem that comes from people rotating off]</p>
<p>DO: will put in a feature request to have a more formal system of rep. of
                        Council members on the SIGs:</p>
<list>
<item>correspondence</item>
<item>education</item>
<item>libraries</item>
<item>manuscripts</item>
<item>music</item>
<item>ontologies</item>
<item>scholarly publishing</item>
<item>text and graphics</item>
<item>tools</item>
</list>
<p>JN: the journal’s publication of the “getting started” document.</p>
<p>LR: It was a great idea, but probably too ambitious to take on as a Council
                        project. But the existing TOC and what’s already there are good.</p>
<p>JN: What about authorship attribution of the existing material?</p>
<p>LB: No sense that there is a strong feeling on the Council that they want to
                        retain ownership.</p>
<p>JC: Does the council want to have a regular place in TEI-EJ to say, “This is
                        what’s been happening”?</p>
<p>LR &amp; JN: Probably not a good idea.</p>
<p>[Discussion of the maintenance of the TEI website (stable URIs to bits of the
                        guidelines; new newsServer; status of material in the vault)]</p>
<p><note><rs>SR</rs> will contact David Sewell about putting search box in
                            guidelines on the TEI site</note></p>
<p>LR: We’ve made good progress. The publishing issue: Our wrap-up after the mtg.
                        didn’t completely satisfy him. He will need to talk more with Ken.
                        Hyphenation was a productive discussion.</p>
<p>EP: Having the manuscripts proposals accepted in principle is satisfying.
                        Thinks it is essential that the SIG has space to put things (put up
                        different versions of the documents, acknowledge people who have
                        contributed, etc.).</p>
<p>DO: Action has already begun to have this happen.</p>
<p>LR: Plan is to use the “feature request” system, right?</p>
<p>ER: Yes, will do this with Lou. There are certain existing feature requests
                        that should be closed because we’ve decided on other protocols for handling
                        them.</p>
<p><note><rs>LB</rs> will close these.</note></p>
</div>

	</div>

	</body></text></TEI>