<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2010-02"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2010-02" when="2010-02-08">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>8 February 2010</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM044</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21900</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
        <body>
	
		<head>TEI Council Meeting</head>		<milestone unit="unknown" rend="rule"/>
	

	<div>
		
		
<p>Attendees: </p>
<list>
<item>Brett Barney (BB)</item>
<item>Gabriel Bodard (GB)</item>
<item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Kevin Hawkins (KH)</item>
<item>Martin Holmes (MH)</item>
<item>Daniel O’Donnell (DoD)</item>
<item>Elena Pierazzo (EP)</item>
<item>Dot Porter (DP)</item>
<item>Sebastian Rahtz (SR) – minutes</item>
<item>Laurent Romary (LR) – chair</item>
</list>

<div><head>
                Introduction</head>
<p>Teleconference started at 1600 CET. </p>
<p>LR began by saying that, although there had been some discussion of possibly
                    having a face-to-face meeting in October, the budget won’t allow that. Therefore
                    the April face-to-face meeting will be the only one this year. He encouraged
                    Council members to economize when arranging travel to the meeting. </p>
<p>LB noted that external funding for a second meeting might be available and hinted
                    that he will pursue this possibility further.</p>
<p>LR noted that planning is proceeding for the one-day symposium before the April
                    meeting. The symposium will be an important event, during which he hopes that we
                    can devise a strategic plan for the use of TEI in the process of scholarly
                    publishing. He requested that in preparation for the meeting, each of the
                    Council members give some thought to this issue and email discussion proposals
                    to him.</p>
<p>DoD informed the group that the Board has received back from Apex corrections to
                    TEI Tite, which he plans to share with a subcommittee of people for review. Lou
                    said he should just bring them to the whole Council instead. Dan said that would
                    be fine.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                Discussion of outstanding feature requests</head>
<p>LB noted that during the last teleconference the Council deferred until this
                    teleconference three ticket items they required a lot of further discussion.
                    Since no progress has been made on these, he suggested that they be put on the
                    agenda for the face-to-face meeting. All agreed, and Laurent volunteered to
                    solicit volunteers to work on these in the meantime. </p>
<p>For full details of each request, see the relevant ticket.</p>
<list><label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2714682&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2714682</ref></label>
<item><label><gi>biblScope</gi> as sibling, child, or both of
                                <gi>imprint</gi></label>: After discussion of how these elements are
                            used, especially for journals, there was general agreement that
                                <gi>biblScope</gi> should be allowed only as a sibling of
                                <gi>imprint</gi>. It was further noted that the examples in the
                            guidelines need to be vetted and that further examples might need to be
                            generated. DoD suggested comparing with other encoding schemes to see
                            how this is handled. <note>MH, KH and LR will follow
                                up.</note></item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2812634&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2812634</ref></label>
<item><label>adding @docStatus to <gi>edition</gi></label>: After discussion
                            of where the desired information would be best supplied and whether the
                            current <gi>teiHeader</gi> already provides adequately for it in, say,
                                <gi>revisionDesc</gi> (it doesn’t), we agreed that a new attribute
                            on <gi>revisionDesc</gi> was warranted and that another new attribute
                            could be added to <gi>change</gi>. Example uses will need to be
                            generated. <note>LB will propose specifics.</note></item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2909766&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2909766</ref></label>
<item><label>adding <gi>add</gi> and <gi>del</gi> to att.datable</label>:
                            There was lively discussion of this item and its implications for other
                            elements about which one might foresee similar arguments. EP noted that
                            the genetic editions working group is currently discussing the
                            desirability of making various elements datable and plans to have a
                            specific proposal for discussion at the April meeting. It was decided
                            that discussion of this ticket be postponed until we have a chance to
                            consider that proposal. </item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2925031&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644062">2925031</ref></label>
<item><label>@ident data type problem with <gi>valItem</gi></label>: It was
                            agreed that there needs to be a way to allow the values specified for an
                            attribute to be something other than valid XML names; the best way to do
                            this is less clear. Eventually, consensus was reached that this should
                            be done by locally defining @ident for <gi>valItem</gi></item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2940860&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2940860</ref></label>
<item><label>adding @xml:space to att.global</label>: It was quickly agreed
                            that it is reasonable to want to preserve spaces in some instances.
                            Debate focused on whether this need is best met by reinstating
                            @xml:space in att.global. It was agreed that, on balance, yes, it
                            is.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2919640&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2919640</ref></label>
<item><label>adding global @facsKey</label>: Although the value of @facs is
                            supposed to be “one or more URIs, separated by whitespace,” folks seem
                            to typically give it a value equivalent to @key—a “magic
                            token” that is to be resolved later by a processor into a full URI. It
                            was agreed that the addition of @facsKey, though not without
                            disadvantages, was advisable, since doing so will not to break existing
                            documents that use @facs as described.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2925145&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2925145</ref></label>
<item><label>non-Gregorian dates</label>: TEI’s @when is currently defined as
                            @when-w3c; some within the community, including LR, would like to define
                            it instead as @when-iso. Since @when-iso is currently allowed,
                            discussion centered on whether the “generic” option offered to TEI users
                            should be the more permissive (ISO) or more restrictive (W3C subset). LB
                            argued that switching to ISO would cause unnecessary headaches. No one
                            disagreed strongly, so the status quo seems to have prevailed.</item>
<label>
                            <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=2862151&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">2862151</ref></label>
<item><label>allowing elements from the certainty module on <gi>gap</gi> and
                                    <gi>space</gi></label>: No objections.</item>
</list>
</div>
	</div>

	</body></text></TEI>