<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2011-11">
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title>
    <meeting n="2011-11" from="2011-11-07" to="2011-11-09">TEI Technical Council ftf meeting :
     <placeName>Paris</placeName>, <date>7–9 November 2011</date></meeting>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <distributor>TEI Website</distributor>
    <idno>TCM048</idno>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc>
    <p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p>
   </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
   <change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change>
   <change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21904</change>
   <change><name>Martin Holmes with input from others</name><date when="2011-11-14">14 November
    2011</date> Creation of minutes</change>
  </revisionDesc>
 </teiHeader>
 <text>
  <body>
   <div>

  <!-- hand edited to deal with <tag> elements -->
    
    <p> <label>Present in person: </label> Laurent Romary (Chair, LR), Piotr Banski (PB), Brett
     Barney (BB), Lou Burnard (LB), James Cummings (JC), Kevin Hawkins (KH), Martin Holmes (MH),
     Elena Pierazzo (EP)</p>

    <p><label>Guest (day 2 only): Brian L. Pytlik Zillig (BZ) </label></p>

    <p><label>Present remotely: </label>Gabriel Bodard (GB), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Stuart Yeates
     (SY)</p>

    <p><label>Location: </label> INRIA, Paris, France</p>

    <div>
     <head>Day 1: November 7 2011</head>
     <div>
      <head> 1.1 Morning</head>
      <div>
       <head> 1.1.1 Green Tickets </head>
       <p>Review of green feature requests and bugs previously discussed by email.</p>

       <div>
        <head> 1.1.1.1 Feature Requests </head>
        <list>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3415411">3415411</ref>: <label>Split
          <gi>certainty</gi>/<gi>precision</gi>/<gi>respons</gi> from model.glossLike.</label>
          Straightforward ticket: LB will do it and close ticket. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3411906">3411906</ref>: Ticket was already
          implemented by LR. Ticket now closed. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3408683">3408683</ref>: <label>Hyphenation
          section doesn’t reference <gi>pc</gi>/<att>force</att>.</label> Decided, and MH has
          already proposed wording. MH will implement and close ticket. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3296398">3296398</ref>: <label>Add <gi>hi</gi> to
          <gi>figDesc</gi>.</label> Looks trivial, but actually quite complicated. SR’s comments
          make sense. LB volunteers to test whether SR’s proposal works. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3293070">3293070</ref>: <label>Enhancement of
          notes and examples in ref-del.</label> EP disagrees with KH’s comment; she maintains that
          there is a difference between <tag>gap reason=”deleted”</tag> and <tag>gap
          reason=”cancelled”</tag>. So “deleted” needs to be added to the list as well. GB will be
          asked to implement the proposed changes. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3282689">3282689</ref>: <label>Replace ‘file’
          with ‘document’.</label> Even SY agrees that it might not be worth it to implement the
          ticket; anyone can replace individual usage where they come across it. The ticket will be
          closed. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3275613">3275613</ref>: <label>Make
          <gi>textLang</gi> usable in bibliographies.</label> Proposal now is to move
          <gi>textLang</gi> to core, and move all the corresponding discussion of the element. LB
          objects a bit because core is too big, but that’s a different issue. JC will actually
          implement it. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3266021">3266021</ref>: <label>Dictionary entries
          with a single <gi>sense</gi>.</label> LR says this is a consistent repeated request from
          users. LB is unconvinced; PB thinks that much broader changes must be undertaken in the
          dictionaries module in the future, and is uneasy with this because of his practice of
          building up markup progressively. Nevertheless, it will be implemented; KH will do it, and
          will leave in one example of the practice we now deprecate (not using <gi>sense</gi>), so
          as not to absolutely de-legitimate it. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3210946">3210946</ref>: <label>Examples for
          digital facsimile.</label> We will defer this until we talk about the genetic module. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3064014">3064014</ref>: <label>Provide suggested
          values for <gi>rs</gi>/<att>type</att>.</label> Over objections by SR and LB, the Council
          agree that it’s a good idea in any discussion of <att>type</att>-like attributes to
          provide a pointer to an existing ontology or taxonomy. We have a current practice in which
          syntactic sugar <att>type</att> values are taken from the names of the corresponding
          elements; we should express this clearly under <att>type</att>‘s explanation. There should
          also be a comment on the general definition of <att>type</att> to the effect that we
          recommend the use of existing taxonomies where suitable. We should also ensure that all
          our examples in the Guidelines are consistent with this practice, so one example in 3.5.1
          needs to be changed (“organization” becomes “org”). However, rs defines its own
          <att>type</att>, so the same text needs to be added there. The reference to the BBN
          taxonomy belongs in <gi>rs</gi>/<att>type</att>, not the general <att>type</att>. KH will
          implement this. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3051750">3051750</ref>: <label>Choice of schema
          language when using the TEI.</label> The only comments are against the ticket, and KH was
          initially OK with closing it unimplemented, but the general sense of the Council is that
          there should be some information about the various advantages and disadvantages of
          particular schema types. KH believes this belongs in 23.3.2. LB points out that there is a
          basic discussion in the General Introduction. LB suggested a rewording of the second para
          of 23.3.2, moving the first sentence after the second, and modifying it somewhat. A
          broader discussion belongs elsewhere, either on a wiki page or in Roma. The consensus is
          that it belongs in Roma, on the Generate Schemas page; SY suggests it should take the form
          of a link to a Wikipedia page. JC will write the sentence, and insert it into Roma. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3046288">3046288</ref>: <label>Allow <gi>f</gi>
          to contain PCDATA.</label> LR will implement this, getting examples from documents created
          by the group requesting the change. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3041605">3041605</ref>: <label>Update list of
          Council members.</label> The Council agrees that the current list of members should be
          updated, and that a complete list of current and former Council members should be
          maintained and included in the Guidelines. KH will collect info from LB and elsewhere to
          create the list, and MH will then take over to create a more robust and formal collection
          of info based on a <gi>listPerson</gi>; a template <gi>person</gi> can be sent out to
          TEI-L. LB reminds us about privacy concerns. </item>
        </list>
       </div>

       <div>
        <head> 1.1.1.2 Bugs </head>
        <list>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3432216">3432216</ref>: <label>i18n revision
          due.</label> Deferred in favour of a broader discussion of translations. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3400295">3400295</ref>: <label>Inconsistent
          definitions for some elements.</label> MH will provide LB with examples of <gi>label</gi>
          used to mark topic transition in prose text. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3304622">3304622</ref>: <label>Invalid
          <att>xml:lang</att> values.</label> EP and PB: We must use two-letter codes where they
          exist, and where they don’t, three-letter codes can be used; locations should be in
          upper-case. PB will recheck Syd Bauman’s list (on the ticket) and fix all bad examples. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3289073">3289073</ref>: <label>Many missing
          references in Guidelines.</label> SY will implement; KH will handle the three references
          he added. </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3285020">3285020</ref>: <label>Irregularities in
          <gi>gram</gi> syntactic sugar variants.</label> LR suggests that we create a new attribute
          class for <att>dcr:datcat</att>, apply it to all the model.gramPart elements, and then
          wait for other requests for the same attribute. PB will implement this, and make a list of
          other elements that might also want it (in collaboration with the linguistic SIG). </item>
         <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3223544">3223544</ref>: <label>Use of
          <gi>head</gi> and <gi>p</gi> within <gi>figure</gi>.</label> Solution: remove “Figure 1: ”
          from the second example, to reduce confusion. LB has implemented and closed the ticket.
         </item>
        </list>
       </div>
      </div>

      <div>
       <head> 1.1.2 General Discussion </head>
       <p>LR commented that he would like to see many people in the community implement tickets in
        future, based on OK from Council. </p>

       <p>Who should assign colours to tickets? At the moment it’s LB who assigns colours, but
        others could/should. The submitter shouldn’t, but the first commenter perfectly well could.
        For clarification: </p>

       <list>
        <item><label>GREEN:</label> It’s clear what needs to be done, or is being requested.</item>
        <item><label>AMBER:</label> It’s not yet clear what action is requested.</item>
        <item><label>RED:</label> It’s completely unclear what’s being requested or
         suggested.</item>
       </list>
      </div>
     </div>

     <div>
      <head> 1.2 Afternoon</head>
      <div>
       <head> 1.2.1 Amber Tickets </head>
       <list>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3423687">3423687</ref>: <label>A general purpose
         <gi>description</gi> alongside <gi>trait</gi>s/<gi>state</gi>s.</label> LR, PB: The
         proposal for a new <gi>description</gi> element is rejected. However, there is still an
         issue to deal with. <gi>trait</gi> and <gi>state</gi> are essentially the same, the only
         difference being ontological (essential vs incidental). The content model is the same, and
         they are both timed. In the long run, we would want to keep <gi>trait</gi> only, and when
         you need to differentiate essential and incidental, you rely on the <att>type</att>
         attribute, and the possible temporal attributes you may use to limit applicability. Should
         we deprecate <gi>state</gi> in favour of <gi>trait</gi>; or use the Guidelines text to
         explain that if you’re confused about the difference, use <gi>trait</gi>, and that
         <gi>state</gi> is syntactic sugar for <tag>trait type=”state”</tag>? We recommend that
         <gi>trait</gi> is the default element to represent semantics of properties etc.; this will
         require an adjustment to the definition of <gi>trait</gi> to make it broader, so that it
         can be used for temporally-bounded characteristics. After some discussion, we decided that
         <gi>state</gi> makes a more obvious default, because it can handle both temporal and
         non-temporal properties. So: in immediate response, we will suggest <gi>state</gi> as the
         default choice, purify the <gi>trait</gi> examples in the Guidelines to remove the temporal
         attributes, check all the <gi>trait</gi> examples to see which need to be changed to
         <gi>state</gi>, and raise a new ticket to consider the merging of model.traitLike into
         model.stateLike. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3412198">3412198</ref>: <label>JC, MH: make
         <gi>listPerson</gi> and <gi>listOrg</gi> members of model.personLike.</label> We should add
         <gi>listPerson</gi>, <gi>listPlace</gi> and <gi>listOrg</gi> to <gi>org</gi>; and add
         <gi>listOrg</gi> to <gi>particDesc</gi>. LB suggested creating a new model.orgPart, which
         would make the changes to <gi>org</gi> simpler, and adding <gi>listOrg</gi> to the content
         model of <gi>particDesc</gi>. LB will implement it. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3408897">3408897</ref>: <label>KH, EP:
         <att>role</att> for <gi>publisher</gi>.</label> To deal with this ticket, we should allow
         <gi>respStmt</gi> within <gi>imprint</gi>. We would then have ways to handle more than just
         publisher-like roles within <gi>imprint</gi>. This requires broadening the definition of
         <gi>resp</gi> and <gi>respStmt</gi> to allow them to apply to organizations. We should also
         consult with the workgroup who looked at physical bibliography for more guidance on
         requirements in this area. LB objected that there was little distinction in the past
         between the functions we now distinguish (printer, bookseller etc.); EP objected that this
         is certainly not the case for early printed books, and gave examples. The Council decided
         that KH &amp; EP’s solution should be implemented, and MH will implement it. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3311604">3311604</ref>: <label>att.coordinated
         language.</label> BB, LB: Point 2 is agreed: we need more examples of <att>start</att>.
         Point 1: should be rejected because we can think of good use-cases where both may be
         required; Point 3: We can’t really make much sense of the comment, except that we do need
         more examples of the use of <att>points</att>. MH will look for (or create) more examples
         of <att>start</att> and <att>points</att>. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3086675">3086675</ref>: <label>Expand note on
         <gi>availability</gi>.</label> Assigned to MH to finish implementation. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3113682">3113682</ref>: <label>Make <gi>ptr</gi>
         &amp; <gi>ref</gi> members of att.internetMedia.</label> Assigned to MH to finish
         implementation. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511">2834511</ref>: <label>Add more elements
         to att.spanning with schematron constraint.</label> LR, JC: This introduces a parallel
         method of doing spanning for elements (<gi>add</gi>, <gi>del</gi>) which already have a
         method (<gi>addSpan</gi> and <gi>delSpan</gi>), so it’s unlikely that anyone would have a
         need for it right now, unless we implement it for all of model.pPart.transcriptional.
         Everyone likes the longer-term vision of implementing spanning through att.spanning being
         added to many elements, but is unwilling to implement only a part of it that gives us
         nothing new. A working group of GB, BB and LB will go away and a) check which elements they
         believe should be included, and b) write an explanation of what it means when these spans
         cross element boundaries such as paragraphs. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2925145">2925145</ref>: <label>Generic dating
         class.</label> MH, KH: This ticket has a detailed implementation strategy, which was only
         waiting on the implementation of two other tickets before it could proceed; those have now
         been done, so it should be implemented. The new objection by ianrons is basically that up
         to now, people have been abusing <att>calendar</att> because <att>datingMethod</att> did
         not exist, so these two attributes may be confused; our response would be that now
         <att>datingMethod</att> will be available, there is no need to abuse <att>calendar</att>,
         and existing abuses can be fixed, or not, at the discretion of their perpetrators. Assigned
         to GB to implement. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060867">3060867</ref>: <label>Grouping traitlike,
         statelike, and eventlike elements.</label> LB, PB: We should create a new
         <gi>listState</gi> element, to be added to the content models of <gi>person</gi>,
         <gi>place</gi> and <gi>org</gi>, and which would have a content model of model.stateLike
         (assuming that’s the one we recommend in the other ticket). Assigned to PB for
         implementation. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3393244">3393244</ref>: <label>Simplify content
         model of <gi>subst</gi> to <gi>add</gi> and <gi>del</gi> only.</label> EP, BB: This ticket
         arose out of an old ticket which was previously discussed and assigned to JC, but was not
         implemented. The proposal is to deprecate the current model of <gi>subst</gi>
         (model.pPart.transcriptional); create a new content model that allows only <gi>add</gi>,
         <gi>del</gi> and milestone elements (starting with adding the milestones, removing
         model.pPart.transcriptional and replacing it with the individual elements, and then
         removing the others at the expiry of the deprecation period); and create <gi>substJoin</gi>
         to allow the grouping of a range of elements. The Council gradually came round to the view
         that we should actually remove model.pPart.transcriptional elements now, and avoid the
         deprecation period, because the original inclusion of those elements was wrong, and
         therefore this is a bug and should be fixed. GB suggests we should actually use this as an
         exercise to work out how we should do deprecation. In the end we came down in favour of
         implementing it right now. GB will implement it. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3393244">3210946</ref>: <label>Examples for
         digital facsimile.</label> We will defer this until we talk about the genetic
         module.</item>
       </list>
      </div>
     </div>
    </div>

    <div>
     <head> Day 2: November 8 2011</head>
     <div>
      <head> 2.1 Morning</head>
      <div>
       <head> 2.1.1 Genetic Transcription</head>
       <p>The transition between the discussion of <gi>facsimile</gi> and the explanation of
        <gi>sourceDoc</gi>, and when you would use the latter, needs to be expanded (EP, MH and LB).
        The content models of <gi>surface</gi>, <gi>zone</gi> etc. are identical whether they appear
        within <gi>facsimile</gi> or <gi>sourceDoc</gi>. This could lead to confusion. EP: The idea
        is to discourage <gi>facsimile</gi>. MH: But the genetic workgroup believes that
        <gi>facsimile</gi> and <gi>sourceDoc</gi> are different; if we remove the former, those who
        need that will surely complain. JC: <gi>facsimile</gi> and <gi>sourceDoc</gi> are different,
        and have different use cases. LB: We should provide schematron rules to say that if you use
        e.g. <gi>line</gi>, it should have ancestor::sourceDoc. LR: three points: We have ended up
        with a double mechanism, when a single mechanism would be simpler; some people like
        <gi>facsimile</gi> and want to keep it; some people would pursue the goal of coherence and
        want to remove one of them. MH: can we make <gi>facsimile</gi> an actual alias for
        <gi>sourceDoc</gi> through a technical mechanism? LR: Yes, through <gi>equiv</gi> in the
        description of <gi>facsimile</gi>, in the ODD. We could provide two ODDs, one for
        <gi>sourceDoc</gi> and one for <gi>facsimile</gi>, and the latter could be defined as a
        subset of the former. This is not yet possible in ODD. MH, summarizing: For now, we’re stuck
        with using both elements, explaining the difference between them, and explaining the
        long-term strategy. </p>

       <p>EP: There are some major problems with the chapter as it stands: </p>

       <list>
        <item>The opening with two facing pages, with a patch crossing the two pages, or where the
         author has considered the opening as a single surface (e.g. Proust’s working texts). EP
         proposed to the Goethe working group that a single <gi>surface</gi> be used in this case;
         this means that <gi>surface</gi> is being used as a psychological construct. The working
         group responded positively to this, and Council thinks it’s uncontroversial. EP has
         examples, and will provide one from Proust, because the chapter should have one. BB: the
         chapter currently reads as though a <gi>surface</gi> is a physical object, or exists prior
         to interpretation, but we need to modify that description so that it allows for, or even
         specifies, the fact that a <gi>surface</gi> is a psychological construct of the encoder,
         presumably based on the assumed perception of the original author who chose to use it that
         way. JC: Why shouldn’t this situation be handled by nesting <gi>surface</gi>? EP: In this
         case, you could represent the page <gi>surface</gi>s side-by-side, rather than nesting
         them. There is no need for nesting. </item>
        <item>A mini-<gi>surface</gi> within an existing <gi>surface</gi> is represented as a
         <gi>patch</gi>. If the patch is written on both sides, then it’s <att>flippable</att>, but
         how do we distinguish that from two separate patches? JC, LR: We need nested surfaces to
         handle this. LB: <gi>patch</gi> is just a special kind of <gi>surface</gi>. Should we
         collapse it into the definition of <gi>surface</gi>? LB suggests we kill <gi>patch</gi>,
         and we introduce something called <gi>surfaceGrp</gi>, of which the prototypical case is a
         “leaf”; another example is a pile of post-it notes on top of each other. A
         <gi>surfaceGrp</gi> is not a matter of interpretation; it’s a physical object which
         includes multiple <gi>surface</gi>s. EP objects to the idea of physical objects, because
         all determination of <gi>surface</gi> is by the encoder; we can’t really express physical
         reality. MH, JC: A <gi>surfaceGrp</gi> could not have a single coordinate space because it
         is not a single two-dimensional space; a <gi>surfaceGrp</gi> can have a location within the
         coordinate space of its parent <gi>surface</gi>, and its child <gi>surface</gi>s have their
         own coordinate spaces. The group consensus now is that what we were thinking of as a patch
         could be represented either as a nested <gi>surface</gi> (in the case of a single pasted
         object with only one significant face) or a <gi>surfaceGrp</gi> (in the case of a flippable
         two-sided object, or a multi-page booklet pasted onto the parent surface). Both
         <gi>surface</gi> and <gi>surfaceGrp</gi> therefore need to be able to express their
         dimensions within the coordinate space of their parent <gi>surface</gi>; in the case of a
         nested <gi>surface</gi>, it may also define its own coordinate space which act as the
         context for <gi>zone</gi> elements defined within it. <gi>surfaceGrp</gi> may be a child of
         <gi>facsimile</gi> or <gi>sourceDoc</gi>. </item>
        <item>The leaf concept has been largely covered with <gi>surfaceGrp</gi>, but there’s the
         issue of transparency; a writer may interact with something visible from the other side of
         a leaf, by e.g. doodling around it. MH: this might be handled through an attribute on
         <gi>zone</gi>, such as “bleedThrough”. </item>
        <item>EP: BB raised the issue of <att>alt</att> on the list; exactly what did he mean? BB:
         I’ll have to go back and look at that again. </item>
       </list>
       <p><label>SUMMARY</label>: LB will rework the draft, and do it as fast as possible; he’ll
        then ask all Council members to read the whole thing again. We should allow three working
        days, including if possible a weekend, to do the appropriate level of proofing. </p>
      </div>

      <div>
       <head> 2.1.2 Amber Tickets</head>
       <p>Three amber FRs were assigned to LB and set to Pending because they relate to the genetic
        proposal already in process: </p>

       <list>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3095641">3095641</ref>: <label>New elements to
         document stages in the writing process.</label> </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3095640">3095640</ref>: <label>New
         model.pPart.transcriptional elements for genetic markup.</label> </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3095637">3095637</ref>: <label>New
         <gi>document</gi><gi>patch</gi><gi>line</gi> elements for genetic view.</label> </item>
       </list>
       <p>Two tickets were postponed till the afternoon EEBO session. The following tickets were
        addressed: </p>

       <list>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3293316">3293316</ref>: <label>Move
         <gi>witStart</gi> et al. to model.milestoneLike.</label> This topic is being addressed by a
         working group right now, so the ticket is assigned to EP with a note to that effect. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3115238">3115238</ref>:
         <label><gi>altIdentifier</gi> in <gi>msPart</gi>.</label> Assigned to EP, who will nudge
         Torsten to provide the required examples. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3118435">3118435</ref>: <label>Classes in
         interleave mode and cardinality membership.</label> This is an ODD3 request; MH asks if the
         suggested functionality in ODD would be implementable in XSD, or whether it would reduce us
         to only RelaxNG as a fully-working output schema language. There are actually two tickets
         here; the cardinality issue has been moved to another ticket, while this ticket is now
         addressing only interleave. We will post a comment asking gaiffe to create a new ticket
         only about interleave, and close this ticket. </item>
       </list>
       <p>The following tickets were dealt with: </p>

       <list>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3290834">3290834</ref>: <label><gi>memberOf</gi>
         with cardinality restrictions.</label> [Related to above.] We will make this green and
         accepted. It is assigned to SR. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3258912">3258912</ref>: <label>Clarification of
         <gi>colloc</gi>.</label> Marked as green, accepted and pending, and assigned to LR. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3156049">3156049</ref>: <label>Managing
         <gi>egXML</gi> content (validation and presentation).</label> JC, PB: There are two
         separate issues. First, does the prose need to be tidied up with respect to the last two
         comments. We agree, and this should be done. Second, should the <att>teix:show</att>
         attribute be handled. LB commented on the ticket to say that <att>tei:rend</att> could be
         used both for showing and for specialized rendering to e.g. highlight part of some code for
         teaching purposes. Therefore JC and PB propose using the <att>tei:rend</att> attribute
         inside <gi>teix:egXML</gi> to specify rendering requirements etc. So: a) correct the prose
         according to the last two comments on the ticket, and 2) add <att>tei:rend</att> to all
         elements within the teix namespace. The implication of <att>tei:rend</att> in this context
         is that a processor will act on the attribute as a rendering instruction, rather than show
         it as part of the example. Set to green and assigned to JC. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3147225">3147225</ref>:<label> New element
         <gi>spGrp</gi>.</label> EP, LB: The proposal is that there are sub-div-level structural
         groups of speeches etc., as in e.g. shared arias or musical numbers, or play-within-a-play
         situations, and that a new <gi>spGrp</gi> element should be created to handle this. The
         content model would require a minimum of two <gi>sp</gi>s, along with anything else that
         can appear between <gi>sp</gi>s. But is this too specific? Should we instead introduce a
         new <gi>floatingDiv</gi> element that would handle other cases too? However, this is a
         simple case with a simple proposed solution which everyone understands, so we accept it.
         Marked as accepted and green, and assigned to LB. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3188679">3188679</ref>: <label>Change content
         model of <gi>ident</gi>.</label> MH, LR: LB’s use-case is actually a use-case for
         <gi>idno</gi>, not for <gi>ident</gi>. For instance, he uses URLs and filenames, and both
         of these should be <gi>idno</gi>. However, <gi>idno</gi> also does not permit internal
         structure, and there are other use-cases where that would be a good idea (for instance
         ISBNs and ISSNs). At the same time, <gi>ident</gi> does have a specific purpose, which is
         tagging formal identifiers in e.g. programming languages, and these do <emph>not</emph>
         typically have internal structure. Finally, we are sympathetic to Sebastian’s objections
         related to processing. Therefore we propose that <gi>idno</gi> should be made recursive,
         allowing internal structure, examples of recursive <gi>idno</gi> should be supplied, and LB
         should be encouraged to use <gi>idno</gi> instead of <gi>ident</gi> for his purposes. EP
         strongly objected that the subdivisions of <gi>idno</gi> are not necessarily
         <gi>idno</gi>s. LB says that the difference between <gi>ident</gi> and <gi>idno</gi>
         definitely needs some clarification. Assigned to MH to clarify the guidelines on the
         difference between <gi>idno</gi> and <gi>ident</gi>, and close the ticket, and to LR to
         raise a new ticket for the nesting of <gi>idno</gi> so the council can address it at
         length. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3305016">3305016</ref>: <label>Make
         <gi>graphic</gi> available within <gi>table</gi> and <gi>formula</gi>.</label> BB, KH: The
         current content model of <gi>formula</gi> allows text or graphics. It turns out that table
         has similar requirements: it may (need to) be represented by a graphic element. So the
         proposal is to extend the model of table to include <gi>graphic</gi>. The prose should be
         revised not only for table but also for <gi>formula</gi> to explain that this is allowed.
         LB pointed out that you could use <att>facs</att>, but MH replied that you should be able
         to choose between doing things in the same way as is done with <gi>formula</gi> if you
         wish, or use <att>facs</att> throughout if that is your encoding practice. MH also pointed
         out that there is a use-case for more than one graphic (tables printed over several pages),
         so it should be one or more graphics. Set to pending, accepted and green. Assigned to KH
         (with help from LB for the content model change) to implement. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3106834">3106834</ref> and <ref
         target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3106829">3106829</ref><label><gi>floatingText</gi>
         issues.</label> (Discussed in the afternoon, but added here for clarity.) KH summarized
         that we appear to have a pointless prohibition against using <gi>floatingText</gi> for
         incomplete texts. The practical problem is that you can’t use <gi>quote</gi> for a quote of
         a lengthy part of a text, because its content model is too restrictive, but the
         description/definition of <gi>floatingText</gi> specifies “complete”. The Council had
         discussed and agreed on the second ticket in Chicago, but implementation was held up by
         another ticket, which has now been resolved, so we can go ahead with minor adjustments to
         the proposed wording to remove the example of a musical number, which we now recommend
         handling through <gi>spGrp</gi> (see above). Council created a new, improved formulation of
         the change to the text. Set to agreed, green and pending, and assigned to KH for
         implementation, although he will assign it to BB when SourceForge settings have been
         changed to permit this. </item>
       </list>
      </div>
     </div>

     <div>
      <head> 2.2 Afternoon: ECCO/EEBO Discussion </head>
      <p>Brian L. Pytlik Zillig (BZ) from EEBO joined the meeting all day, and in the afternoon
       Council worked with him on a number of issues regarding the possible convergence of TCP and
       TEI. The EEBO corpus will contain several billion words, and will be freely available in the
       future, so it’s in our interests to make sure that interoperability between TCP and TEI is
       maximized. </p>

      <p>There are a number of areas in which moving from TCP to TEI P5 is complicated. Three groups
       of issues were identified by Martin Mueller (MM): </p>

      <div>
       <head> 2.2.1 First Group of Issues</head>
       <list>
        <item><label>Accept the EECO model for <gi>figure</gi> wholly or in part.</label>
         <p>The Council first looked at the following items from MM’s spreadsheet in GoogleDocs:
         </p> <list>
         <item><gi>figure</gi>/<gi>l</gi></item>
         <item><gi>figure</gi>/<gi>lg</gi></item>
         <item><gi>figure</gi>/<gi>quote</gi></item>
         <item><gi>figure</gi>/<gi>signed</gi></item>
         <item><gi>figure</gi>/<gi>sp</gi></item>
         <item><gi>figure</gi>/<gi>stage</gi></item>
         <item><gi>figure</gi>/<gi>table</gi></item>
         </list>
         <p> We discussed possible approaches that involve an intermediary element that would allow
         the required elements inside it, but eventually settled on allowing these elements inside
         <gi>figure</gi> because this expansion of the content model of <gi>figure</gi> is likely to
         benefit many other projects too (BB). SR proposes that we change the content model of
         <gi>figure</gi> to match that of the prototype of <gi>floatingDiv</gi>. LB suggests that
         <gi>figure</gi> should have the same content model as div. The Council agrees that this
         should be enacted and JC has created ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3434973"
         >3434973</ref> for it. </p> </item>
        <item>
         <p><label>Add <gi>opener</gi> and <gi>closer</gi> to the P5 <gi>postscript</gi>
         model.</label> (This is our ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3232942"
         >3232942</ref>.) </p>
         <p>EP: The current content model of <gi>postscript</gi> makes it useless anyway, so if
         we’re going to change its model we might as well try to make it truly useful, by adding all
         elements allowed in <gi>div</gi>. It became apparent to the Council that the current
         content model of <gi>postscript</gi> is ridiculous because it’s simultaneously
         over-permissive (<gi>camera</gi>, <gi>elementSpec</gi>) and overly restrictive (no
         <gi>opener</gi> or <gi>closer</gi>). SR proposed a more sophisticated content model which
         has been added to a comment on the ticket. SR volunteers to implement this. </p> </item>
        <item><label>Permit <gi>l</gi> as a direct child of <gi>head</gi>.</label>
         <p>EEBO has lots of examples of <gi>l</gi> inside head, but P5 does not permit this. Some
         members of council felt we should allow <gi>l</gi> in <gi>head</gi>; others thought we
         should allow <gi>lg</gi>, and require that <gi>lg</gi> wrap the <gi>l</gi>s; still others
         thought that no line-group could possibly constitute a <gi>head</gi>. Council agrees that
         both <gi>lg</gi> and <gi>l</gi> should be allowed inside <gi>head</gi>, because elsewhere
         both <gi>lg</gi> and <gi>l</gi> are allowed alongside each other. How to implement this is
         not yet clear. LB has raised ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3434992"
         >3434992</ref> for this, and it is not yet assigned to anyone. </p> </item>
        <item><label>Permit <gi>stage</gi> as a direct child of <gi>lg</gi>.</label>
         <p>The justification for this is convincing, and SR suggests adding model.stageLike to the
         content model of <gi>lg</gi>, which the Council approved. LB has raised ticket <ref
         target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3434996">3434996</ref> for this. </p> </item>
        <item><label>Permit <gi>floatingText</gi> and <gi>table</gi> as direct children of
         <gi>sp</gi> (which would also align <gi>sp</gi> with <gi>said</gi>, which does allow those
         elements). </label>
         <p>Council agreed that, since a letter can be read out by a speaker, and a letter is a
         <gi>floatingText</gi>, then <gi>sp</gi> should allow <gi>floatingText</gi>; the case for
         <gi>table</gi> is harder to make, especially since it can be avoided simply by wrapping the
         <gi>table</gi> in <gi>sp</gi>. SR could not find any examples of <gi>table</gi> in
         <gi>sp</gi> in ECCO, but found one of a <gi>sp</gi>/<gi>p</gi>/<gi>table</gi>, which looks
         quite convincing, and Council came to the view that <gi>table</gi> should be allowed. The
         Council’s decision is that we want to allow both <gi>floatingText</gi> and table within
         <gi>sp</gi>, and a ticket should be raised and someone assigned to discover the best
         approach to this, since it’s not immediately obvious. This has not yet been assigned to
         anyone. </p> </item>
       </list>
      </div>

      <div>
       <head> 2.2.2 Second Group of Issues (EEBO’s responsibility)</head>
       <p> Council looked at the following five items, and concluded that all seem reasonable, and
        are the responsibility of whoever is tranforming the EEBO texts: </p>

       <list>
        <item><label><gi>headnote</gi> and <gi>tailnote</gi> can be expressed as <gi>notes</gi> with
         type attributes.</label> </item>
        <item><label>Single <gi>p</gi> elements inside <gi>cell</gi> can be deleted making the
         content of <gi>p</gi> the immediate content of <gi>cell</gi>.</label> </item>
        <item><label>The EEBO <gi>element</gi> can be expressed as <tag>floatingText
         type=”letter”</tag>.</label> </item>
        <item><label>The rare <gi>above</gi> and <gi>below</gi> can be expressed as <tag>hi
         class=”above”</tag> or perhaps some different ways.</label> </item>
        <item><label><gi>postscript</gi> elements as last children of <gi>closer</gi> can be turned
         into right siblings of <gi>closer</gi>.</label> </item>
       </list>
      </div>

      <div>
       <head> 2.2.3 Third Group of Issues (unaddressed)</head>
       <p>There was no time to consider the third type of issue identified by MM, exemplified in the
        following items: </p>

       <list>
        <item><label>Cases in which <gi>list</gi> appears as child of <gi>label</gi> in EEBO texts
         should be remodeled as two-column tables or expressed in some other way.</label></item>
        <item><label>The few instances in which <gi>cell</gi> has a complex content model along the
         lines of <gi>item</gi> should be rethought.</label> </item>
        <item><label>In addition to these problems, the encoding of signatures in early modern texts
         may require additional discussion.</label> </item>
       </list>
       <p>Council noted that it would also like to request access to the current state of EEBO in
        its “lossless XML” form, as well as the facsimiles, so that we can generate a list of issues
        that we believe EEBO might wish to address, and made that request to BZ. </p>
      </div>
     </div>
    </div>

    <div>
     <head> Day 3: November 9 2011 </head>
     <div>
      <head> 3.1 Morning </head>
      <p>The council started with a brief review of the last ticket discussed at the end of the
       preceding day, to bring LR up to date on its resolution.</p>

      <div>
       <head> 3.1.1 Amber Tickets </head>
       <list>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3432520">3432520</ref><label>Introduce standard
         attributes to refer to ISOCat.</label> This ticket has been assigned to PB. The original
         proposal was to add the new <att>dcr:valueDatcat</att> attribute to global attributes, but
         instead we will create an attribute class called att.datcat for it, and add that class to
         elements only in response to specific requests. Initially, all the members
         ofmodel.gramPartand <gi>gram</gi> will get the attribute. Set to Pending and assigned to
         PB. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3434990">3434990</ref><label> Require minimum of
         two lines or <gi>lg</gi> inside <gi>lg</gi>.</label> JC believes the definition of
         <gi>lg</gi> requires that there be more than one <gi>l</gi> in a <gi>lg</gi>. Others (LR,
         MH) believe that there are good use-cases for a single <gi>l</gi> inside <gi>lg</gi>.
         Assigned to LR to gather and express arguments on both sides of the issue. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3064757">3064757</ref><label>XML construct
         encoding within Schematron.</label> This was assigned to SR, asking him to check whether
         it’s a simple fix or something very complicated because of processing requirements. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUG/3376456">3376456</ref><label>Deprecate use of
         <gi>gram</gi> except as a child of <gi>gramGrp</gi> (<gi>gramGrp</gi> is allowed as a child
         of both <gi>form</gi> and <gi>sense</gi>, but <gi>gram</gi> is allowed only as a child of
         <gi>form</gi>.)</label> (Submitter would like it added to <gi>sense</gi> as well in keeping
         with feature request 3266021 and in keeping with section 9.3.2, which implies that you can
         encode grammatical information either way.) Assigned to KH to implement; he will then open
         a deprecation ticket, on which we’ll eventually act. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUG/3270162"
         >3270162</ref><label><gi>profileDesc</gi>: one or more <gi>catRef</gi>.</label> KH: We
         should either use one <gi>catRef</gi> or explain the reasons for using more than one. LB:
         We can’t enforce a single <gi>catRef</gi> without breaking backward compatibility. The
         consensus is that this is a matter of stylistic preference, and the Guidelines should make
         this clear. PB provided good use cases for both styles. KH: We should recommend one
         approach in the interests of interoperability. SY: Picking one makes writing stylesheets
         easier. The Council generally agrees, with one exception. PB: We should not recommend use
         of a single <gi>catRef</gi> because it’s difficult to maintain. Council agrees that we
         should recommend that people use multiple <gi>catRef</gi>s, because multiple targets can be
         cumbersome. KH was asked to propose a wording for this, and the ticket was assigned to him. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUG/3223636">3223636</ref><label><att>xml:space</att>
         vs. CDATA for blocks of code.</label> MH, PB: A careful reading of the definition of
         <att>xml:space</att> fails to reveal what its value of ‘default’ implies, although
         ‘preserve’ should act as an instruction to a processor to preserve whitespace in the
         hosting element and all its descendants (meaning that LB’s determination, in the TEI-L
         discussion, that it’s meaningless in the context of text-only elements is presumably
         wrong); but evidence from actual implementations in browsers suggest that it only applies
         to the whitespace between child elements in element-only content elements (meaning that LB
         would be correct). So for various reasons <att>xml:space</att> may be a red herring anyway.
         The problem raised by KH on the ticket is one of rendering. In the TEI stylesheets,
         <gi>tei:code</gi> is simply converted to <gi>xhtml:code</gi>. We recommend that someone
         draft an explanation of <att>xml:space</att> and its meaning in TEI. PB recommends that we
         remove the one sentence referring to <att>xml:space</att> from the Guidelines, but LB
         suggests instead supplementing it with an explanation of the difficulties we see with
         regard to using it. LR suggests making a request to the W3C to clarify their specification.
         In the context where it appears, though, that sentence is irrelevant because it will have
         no effect on the element concerned, so we should remove it, but we should still add an
         explanation of difficulties with <att>xml:space</att> wherever <att>xml:space</att> is
         defined. Assigned to PB, but left as Open, not Pending, because it’s not urgent. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUG/3216049">3216049</ref><label>Normalize attributes
         and classes on <gi>placeName</gi>/<gi>geogName</gi>.</label> JC, LB: There is some
         rationale behind the absence of these attributes from <gi>geogName</gi>, but it doesn’t
         really hold up. The content model for <gi>placeName</gi> is a bit suspect (e.g.
         <att>dimensions</att>), but that’s a different issue. The Council agrees to give
         <gi>geogName</gi> the same attribute set as <gi>placeName</gi>, and then raise a second
         ticket to deal with the problems in that set of attributes. Assigned to LB. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3423686">3423686</ref><label>An <gi>object</gi>
         element.</label> KH, EP: KH and EP suggest asking the Ontology SIG to go ahead and draft a
         proposal for creating <gi>object</gi>, <gi>listObject</gi> and <gi>objectName</gi>, and
         accompanying details and Guidelines text, and submit them to Council for consideration. The
         ticket will is assigned to SR and left open. </item>
        <item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3309894">3309894</ref><label>Encoding RDF
         relationships in TEI.</label> SR: <gi>relation</gi> is nearly adequate to enabling the
         extraction of RDF triples. <gi>relation</gi> was originally for people, but should be
         extended for more general applicability, and adding <att>ref</att> and <att>key</att> on
         it. SY objects on the basis that RDF can be embedded in TEI anyway, but the submitter and
         the SIG are strongly in favour. The submitter strongly recommends renaming the
         <att>active</att> and <att>passive</att> attributes to <att>subject</att> and
         <att>object</att>, and removing <att>mutual</att>, but Council feels it’s not worth
         breaking backward compatibility just to rename attributes. The SIG will be asked to raise a
         new ticket if they feel very strongly about the naming issue. <gi>relationGrp</gi> will
         also be added to model.biblLike. Assigned to SR to implement, and set to Pending and green.
        </item>
       </list>
      </div>

      <div>
       <head> 3.1.2 Other Issues </head>
       <p>EP asked that we create a link on the TEI site to a filtered list of SF tickets including
        only the deprecation tickets, so people can easily see what is currently deprecated. MH
        suggested there be two lists, one showing open deprecation tickets and one showing closed
        (because enacted) deprecation tickets. LB opened a ticket for this, and assigned it to
        JC.</p>
      </div>
     </div>

     <div>
      <head> 3.2 Afternoon</head>
      <div>
       <head> 3.2.1 Discussion Topics </head>
       <list>
        <item><label>Dealing with SPAM on the wiki.</label> Right now anyone can create an account
         on the wiki, and this results in spam. If we change this to submitting an email, then there
         may be a significant delay before people get logons, and we may still not easily be able to
         tell genuine requests from spammers. The Council recommends that the webmasters (DS and JC)
         investigate possible alternative solutions to these problems. </item>
        <item><label>P4 survey report.</label> JC did a survey of usage of P4, in advance of its
         scheduled end-of-life: <ref
         target="http://blogs.oucs.ac.uk/jamesc/2011/10/27/tei_p4_support/"
         >http://blogs.oucs.ac.uk/jamesc/2011/10/27/tei_p4_support/</ref>. JC: this basically gives
         us encouragement to start moving P4 to the Vault over the next year. </item>
        <item>
         <p><label><code>*Grp</code> vs. <code>list*</code>.</label> BB, LB, PB: The current
         situation is horrible: </p>
         <p>list*.xml:</p><list>
         <item>listBibl.xml</item>
         <item>listChange.xml</item>
         <item>listEvent.xml</item>
         <item>listNym.xml</item>
         <item>listOrg.xml</item>
         <item>listPerson.xml</item>
         <item>listPlace.xml</item>
         <item>listRef.xml</item>
         <item>listWit.xml</item>
         <item>list.xml</item>
         </list>
         <p>*List.xml:</p> <list>
         <item>attList.xml</item>
         <item>castList.xml</item>
         <item>specList.xml</item>
         <item>valList.xml</item>
         </list>
         <p>*Grp.xml:</p> <list>
         <item>altGrp.xml</item>
         <item>forestGrp.xml</item>
         <item>gramGrp.xml</item>
         <item>interpGrp.xml</item>
         <item>joinGrp.xml</item>
         <item>linkGrp.xml</item>
         <item>locusGrp.xml</item>
         <item>measureGrp.xml</item>
         <item>personGrp.xml</item>
         <item>rdgGrp.xml</item>
         <item>relationGrp.xml</item>
         <item>spanGrp.xml</item>
         <item>specGrp.xml</item>
         <item>transposeGrp.xml</item>
         </list>
         <p>*Group.xml:</p> <list>
         <item>castGroup.xml</item>
         </list>
         <p> EP: We could try to use <gi>equiv</gi> to make element aliasing work, and then
         rationalize the names; we could push this problem forward to P6, and develop an explicit
         strategy for naming these things; or we could throw up our hands and do nothing. PB: We
         should fix <gi>transposeGrp</gi> while we can. We should develop a clear set of naming
         principles for these things. LB: There is a general section in the Guidelines on naming of
         elements. A description should go there. LR: It should go in tagDocs because people use
         that when writing ODDs. LB: All but a handful of the <code>*Grp</code> elements are
         syntactically correct as groups; the exceptions are <gi>transposeGrp</gi>, which we’ve
         agreed to change, <gi>forestGrp</gi>, and <gi>relationGrp</gi>. LB will raise a ticket for
         this.</p></item>
        <item><label>Magic tokens.</label> JC, KH, LR: The consensus is that we could integrate
         within <att>ref</att> all the usages currently covered by <att>key</att>, so the vision for
         the future is that we don’t need <att>key</att>. However, <att>key</att> is widely used
         right now, so we should not remove it or deprecate it. We should modify the Guidelines to
         make the point that people should switch to <att>ref</att> wherever <att>key</att> is
         mentioned. KH will create a ticket and start implementing it. </item>
        <item><label>Translations.</label> MH, EP: First, how should we realign the translations
         from 2007? Second, how do we put a system in place to ensure that translations don’t get
         too far behind? Before we can act, though, we need to know whether the TEI prioritizes it
         or not, and is willing to put some money into it. To do that, we really need to do a survey
         of the community; such a survey would have to be multilingual, and we would need to make
         sure we can reach non-English-speaking users, so we’ll have to issue a multilingual call,
         and ask TEI-L users to circulate it among their communities. PB: Adding requirements for
         translation of every change can actually make the maintainers of a project reluctant to
         make needed changes. We could also go for a wiktionary approach for element definitions,
         but that would be another environment to maintain. LR: The first action is to issue a
         multilingual survey; the second action is to implement models for translation environments
         and tools; and thirdly, we need to find a way to officially validate or certify
         translations. We should report our intentions to the Board through EP, and we will raise a
         ticket that ensures we return to the issue at the next meeting. </item>
        <item><label>Architecture of TEI/ODD.</label> LR, JC, LB: There are three main orientations
         that the TEI should follow in the medium- and long-term. First, we should make ODD
         feature-complete (getting rid of external vocabularies etc.). Second, we should start by
         working on the inheritance model to deal with the <att>type</att> issue (enable the
         overriding of an attribute description inherited from a class). We should have a
         traditional class inheritance structure for e.g. content models. Finally, we should derive
         modules from this class inheritance. </item>
        <item><label>Tools.</label> PB, KH, SR: The web Roma (not the command-line processor) needs
         a rewrite. Much of its functionality has been taken over by OxGarage. It can be done with
         JavaScript/AJAX. There are two ways to do this: get some money and pay an intern to do it,
         or apply for outside grant money. However, if we are going for outside money, we should
         have greater ambitions. Roma should be more generalizable, as LR wants, to use with non-TEI
         ODDs. The whole of the processing could actually be written in JavaScript and run on the
         client, so no server back-end is required. EP asked what about Vesta? SR notes that most of
         its functionality is available in OxGarage. Vesta was an experiment to see if we could
         write a desktop version of Roma, and it was never finished, and now can no longer be built.
         We no longer need it because we can do the same work in oXygen. Council concluded that we
         should look around for possible granting agencies that might give us a substantial grant
         for this, and earmark some time at the next meeting to polish a formal grant application.
         All council members should do this. We should also add OxGarage to the Tools page on the
         TEI site. KH will do that. </item>
        <item><label>Workflow for Community and Council.</label> MH, EP, BB: First, the SF
         ticket/list system is only comfortable for programming types, so there should be an
         intermediate mechanism to enable people to submit a request to the Council mailing list, so
         one of us can pick it up and turn it into a ticket. This should be on the TEI website, and
         have a captcha. Second, the <ref target="http://tbe.kantl.be/TBE/">TEI by Example</ref>
         site is not linked from the TEI website; it should be prominent. This should be submitted
         as a FR. Third, our website is not helpful at all. It needs to be reimagined or
         restructured from the point of view of new users, in accordance with usability guidelines.
         For workflow with regard to Council, can we reduce the volume of messages and in particular
         the noise and trivialities. LB ‘s guide to editing the source needs to be expanded, and
         complemented by a semi-formal mentoring system to enable new members to become effective.
         We should also attempt to express formally the institutional knowledge we now share about
         e.g. tasks to be completed by the Council Chair and members prior to a ftf meeting.
         Actions: We will make public all the current expectations of members of Council prior to
         the next call for candidates. The Council page on the website should make this clear. JC
         will add EP as an admin on the TEI website so that she can make changes. </item>
       </list>
      </div>

      <div>
       <head> 3.2.2 SIG Report from Linguistics SIG (PB)</head>
       <p>PB has sent to the Council a report on the <ref
        target="https://www.zotero.org/groups/tei-lingsig/items/">TEI/linguistic bibliography
        list</ref>, created and maintained in the context of LingSIG. Action for JC: Before Council
        meetings, email the SIG lists to ask for reports or issues to discuss. </p>
      </div>

      <div>
       <head> 3.2.3 Thanks to Laurent Romary </head>
       <p>All members of the Council expressed their sincere gratitude and admiration for the
        leadership and vision Laurent has provided over many years as Council chair. He was
        presented with a card and suitable token of our appreciation in liquid form.</p>
      </div>

      <div>
       <head> 3.2.4 Priorities for the Coming Year </head>
       <p>We should have regular telcos every two months, and deal with tickets at all of them.
        Telcos should not be more than an hour. </p>

       <p>The next ftf will take place mid-to-late April 2012. The date will be finalized before the
        end of the year. </p>

       <p>The strategy for Roma is a priority (see above). We might be able to prod someone with the
        right skill-set to apply for a grant from the Board to do it; calls for applications will go
        out from the Board soon. </p>

       <p>We should create a SIG for the ideas around the future of ODD, and invite likely experts
        and interested community members to join it. </p>

       <p>Solve all outstanding problems regarding conversion from EEBO/ECCO. </p>

       <p>Investigate methods of allowing element and attribute name aliasing, so that we could
        rename elements without breaking backward compatibility. </p>
      </div>
     </div>
    </div>

   </div>
  </body>
  <!-- #post-## -->
 </text>
</TEI>
