<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2011-04"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2011-04" from="2011-04-11" to="2011-04-13">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Chicago</placeName>, <date>11–13 April 2011</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM046</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21902</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
        <body>

            <head>TEI Council Meeting, Chicago 11-13 April 2011</head>
            <milestone unit="unknown" rend="rule"/>


            <div>
                <p>
                    <label>Participants</label> : Elena Pierazzo (EP), James Cummings (JC), Julianne
                    Nyhann (JN), Gabriel Bodard (GB), Martin Holmes (MH), Kevin Hawkins (KH), Brett
                    Barney (BB), Lou Burnard (LB), Martin Mueller (MM; day 2 only) , Piotr Banski
                    (PB), Stuart Yeates (SY; by skype, periodically), Sebastian Rahtz (SR; day 2, am
                    only, by video).</p>
                <p>
                    <label>Location</label> : The meeting was held at the Big Ten Conference Center,
                    Higgins Road, Chicago Il. Council expresses thanks to Kevin Hawkins for
                    facilitation, and for a guided tour of the Chicago downtown area on Tuesday
                    evening, notably featuring dinner at Bistro 110, a favourite dining spot for TEI
                    Committees <ref target="../../../Pictures/History/1992_0525_00.jpg">since
                        1992</ref>.</p>
                <div>
                    <head> Day 1</head>
                    <p>Laurent opened the meeting at 0900 local time, welcoming Council members, and
                        giving a brief overview of the Council’s <foreign>modus operandi</foreign>
                        for the benefit of new members. The main object of this meeting would be to
                        resolve as many of the outstanding amber tickets as possible, but also to
                        discuss some procedural issues, notably those associated with the editorial
                        process. SR would give an overview of the technical production line for P5
                        and a draft paper on Editorial Practice would be reviewed. It was important
                        to reduce the number and complexity of tools we depend on, and to make the
                        production and maintenance of the Guidelines automatic as far as possible.
                        He also reminded those present that not all members were native British
                        English speakers. </p>
                    <p>An <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2011/012872.html"> email dividing the currently amber tickets into groups</ref> had been
                        circulated and served as a basis for constructing the agenda. We would
                        divide into small groups, each one focussing on one of the groups of tickets
                        identified, and then report back with proposals for discussion or resolution
                        in plenary.</p>
                    <div>
                        <head> Tickets</head>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group C1 correct usage of floating text (tickets <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3106834">3106834</ref>, <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3106829">3106829</ref>) </head>
                            <p>We agreed that “completeness” as such was not a useful touchstone for
                                deciding whether something should be tagged as quote or as
                                floatingText. The existing references to “complete” should be
                                removed, perhaps in favour of a word such as “substantial”, or
                                simply removed. We noted that floatingText was permissible within
                                quote, if the quoted material has a sufficiently complex internal
                                structure. We agreed that “quotation” was a property relating to
                                some section’s narrative status, while “floatingText” related more
                                to a passage’s internal substructure. Rewording has subsequently
                                been provided by MH, BB, KH, and LB (see ticket; see also <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2011/012890.html">lengthy email from MM</ref>)</p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head>Group C2 formalisation of <gi>availability</gi> (tickets <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3086675">3086675</ref><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3044329">3044329</ref>)</head>
                            <p>We agreed that values for the existing <att>status</att> attribute
                                should not be changed. One possibility would be to complement this
                                with an additional <att>licence</att> attribute, but we preferred
                                the idea of proposing a new <gi>licence</gi> child element within
                                    <gi>availability</gi>. In the simplest case, this might simply
                                reference an existing licence agreement by means of its
                                    <att>target</att> attribute. This might be complemented by prose
                                content explaining any conditions about the applicability of the
                                referenced licence, or stating the licence itself. Multiple
                                    <gi>licence</gi> elements might be supplied for a single
                                    <gi>avail</gi> ability&gt; if different licences were applicable
                                to the whole text in different situations. Multiple
                                    <gi>availability</gi> elements should be supplied, and selected
                                by the <att>decls</att> atrtribute if different licences applied to
                                different parts of the document. Additionally, having noted in
                                discussion the need for such features as an embargo date, we agreed
                                that the <gi>licence</gi> element should be made a member of the
                                datable class, with the specific semantics that the dates supplied
                                would indicate the period during which the licence in question was
                                applicable. We noted that we should not attempt to supply a complete
                                rights management language.</p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> C3: usage of altIdentifier within <gi>msPart</gi> (ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3115238">3115238</ref>) </head>
                            <p><gi>altIdentifier</gi> did not have the same substructure as
                                    <gi>msIdentifier</gi>, but was the only mechanism available for
                                recording a former identifier for an individual <gi>msPart</gi>.
                                Reviewing this decision, council agreed that it would be better to
                                permit <gi>msIdentifier</gi> within <gi>msPart</gi> than to abolish
                                    <gi>msPart</gi> and permit nested <gi>msDesc</gi> elements. We
                                agreed to make the content model of <gi>msPart</gi> identical to
                                that of <gi>msDesc</gi>, and to make clear that the continued use of
                                    <gi>altIdentifier</gi> as a sibling of <gi>msIdentifier</gi>
                                rather than as a child of it should be deprecated.</p>
                            <p>We agreed to revisit the appropriate mechanism for recording and
                                implementing deprecation later in the meeting.</p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group A1 : container element for musical notation (tickets <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3086720">3086720</ref>, <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3086726">3086726</ref>) </head>
                            <p>The Music SIG had made several proposals for ways of embedding in a
                                TEI document specialised representation of musical notation
                                expressed for example using the MEI or other vocabularies. The
                                existing <gi>musicNotation</gi> element might perhaps better be
                                renamed <gi>musicNotationDesc</gi> since it documents the presence
                                of music notation in a manuscript rather than actually representing
                                it. Council sympathised with this view, but did not wish to perturb
                                existing usage too much. We agreed that an appropriate name for the
                                proposed container element would be <gi>notatedMusic</gi> and
                                requested the Music SIG to continue their excellent work by
                                providing a preliminary ODD for the new element. This is now
                                available in the SVN repository, along with a sample ODD embedding
                                it; see further
                                http://tei.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/tei/trunk/Documents/notatedMusic/
                                ) </p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group A2. Proposed new grouping elements (tickets <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060867">3060867</ref>, <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3147225">3147225</ref>) </head>
                            <p>This proposal sought to organise and provide several new grouping
                                elements within <gi>person</gi>, <gi>place</gi>, <gi>org</gi> :
                                    <gi>stateGrp</gi>, <gi>eventGrp</gi>, <gi>traitGrp</gi> etc.
                                Though sympathetic to the use case we felt that we needed to see
                                more justification; we were also unable to reach consensus about the
                                difference (if any) between xxxGrp and listXXX as element names. The
                                ticket should remain open.</p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group A2: Proposed new <gi>document</gi> element (ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3095637">3095637</ref>)</head>
                            <p>We explored this proposal at length in a plenary session facilitated
                                by EP. Council recognised and endorsed the use case for a view of
                                the encoded physical object, comprising surfaces, zones, patches,
                                and optionally lines of writing. <mentioned>diploma</mentioned> was
                                suggested as an alternative name. Discussion focussed chiefly on the
                                distinction between the proposed <gi>document</gi> and the existing
                                    <gi>facsimile</gi> elements. Some expressed concern that it
                                would be difficult to explain and justify this distinction; others
                                felt that the two were entirely discrete. It might be possible to
                                regard the existing <gi>facsimile</gi> as a special case of the
                                proposed <gi>document</gi>, even though (for example) the
                                    <gi>zone</gi>s identified within a <gi>facsimile</gi> might be
                                motivated by other factors than those identified within a
                                    <gi>document</gi>. We agreed that it might be useful to find out
                                whether the proposed user community would find it unacceptable to
                                embed the image information currently managed by <gi>facsimile</gi>
                                within the proposed <gi>document</gi> element. </p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group C4 : <gi>epigraph</gi> content wrongly described (ticket
                                    <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3227935">3227935</ref>) </head>
                            <p>The description for <gi>epigraph</gi> implies that it may contain
                                only quotations. We agreed that this was a mistake, and that the
                                wording should be changed to suggest an epigraph might contain a
                                saying or motto. An example such as the Forster one cited in the
                                ticket should be added to the element spec. </p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group C5 : <gi>geogName</gi> and <gi>placeName</gi> (ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3216049">3216049</ref>) </head>
                            <p>There was a general feeling that there was a case for permitting
                                    <att>cert</att> on <gi>geogName</gi> as well as on
                                    <gi>placeName</gi>. LB proposed that this should be done as part
                                of a general review of the attribute class memberships of these
                                naming elements and undertook to document the situation.</p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group C6 : retaining formatting within <gi>code</gi> (ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3223636">3223636</ref>) </head>
                            <p>Some way of retaining whitespace, tabs, line breaks, etc within the
                                content of <gi>code</gi> elements was needed. We felt that this
                                should be done by using xml:space rather than by permitting e.g.
                                    <gi>lb</gi> or <gi>space</gi> within its content. </p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group F : various bibliographic issues </head>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2976715">2976715</ref>: We
                                agreed to add <gi>distributor</gi> to model.respLike, and to use
                                model.respLike within content models passim. The distinction between
                                intellectual responsibility and responsibility for distribution
                                might be sorted out later.</p>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2984463">2984463</ref> :
                                We agreed to define a new att.sortable class providing
                                    <att>sortKey</att>, with initial members
                                    <gi>bibl</gi><gi>biblStruct</gi>, <gi>person</gi>,
                                    <gi>place</gi>, and <gi>event</gi></p>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2493417">2493417</ref> :
                                This had already been implemented, but lacked documentation; KH
                                agreed to provide documentation.</p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group D1: various attribute class membership modifications</head>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3113682">3113682</ref> :
                                Make <gi>ptr</gi> and <gi>ref</gi> members of att.internetMedia. We
                                agreed that this was desirable for documentary purposes, whether or
                                not the server could deliver the goods. The datatype of
                                    <att>mimeType</att> is a different question</p>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060874">3060874</ref> :
                                Make <gi>faith</gi>, and other model.persTraitLike and
                                model.persStateLike elements members of att.canonical; other
                                examples mentioned included <gi>nationality</gi>,
                                    <gi>socecStatus</gi>, <gi>affiliation</gi>, <gi>education</gi>,
                                    <gi>occupation</gi>. We agreed that this seemed reasonable. </p>
                            <p>We also considered whether all elements currently using
                                    <att>code</att> and <att>scheme</att> should systematically be
                                made members of att.canonical instead,</p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group E1 : various technical issues</head>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3118435">3118435</ref>
                                Expanding ODD <gi>content</gi> element to support interleaving of
                                content models and also specification of max and min. We were
                                unclear about the purpose of this: LR to check with the poster.</p>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3156049">3156049</ref> :
                                We were not sure whether validation of examples which contained no
                                single root element was feasibly valid. We agreed that recommended
                                practice should be documented in tcw20 and in the specification for
                                    <gi>egXML</gi> A further comment on the ticket clarifies the
                                concerns expressed at the meeting. </p>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3064757">3064757</ref> :
                                Not discussed through lack of time.</p>
                        </div>
                    </div>
                </div>
                <div>
                    <head> Day 2</head>
                    <div>
                        <head> TEI P5 Workflow and Toolkit</head>
                        <p>Sebastian joined us by video conference to present the wonderful new
                            Jenkins system. This web application constantly monitors updates to the
                            TEI’s sourceforge svn repository, automatically rebuilding and testing
                            the </p>
                        <p>Guidelines and schemas in response to any changes. </p>
                        <p>Martin H agreed to investigate the possibility of providing a second
                            Jenkins instance at Victoria. The process of doing so would hopefully
                            show up any undocumented special-case knowledge in the present
                            installation and scripts.</p>
                        <p>Sebastian noted that W3C schema source is currently generated from the
                            RELAXNG source, and that there is no direct ODD to W3C schema
                            translator. Some W3C schema features cannot be generated from ODD.</p>
                        <p>Piotr suggested that svn commits might also trigger an email to a sf
                            mailing list to which interested parties might subscribe themselves. The
                            list tei-notify<att>lists</att>.sf.net has now been set up accordingly
                            (for instructions see <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-Council-FAQ#How_can_I_find_out_about_every_time_a_change_is_made_in_the_TEI_subversion_repository">wiki entry</ref>). </p>
                    </div>
                    <div>
                        <head> Tickets contd.</head>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group F various bibliographic issues, continued</head>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3177339">3177339</ref> :
                                We agreed that series and seriesStmt should permit the same child
                                elements; the only difference being that the former permits TEXT
                                data between child elements. </p>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/2987241">2987241</ref> :
                                We agreed that it would be desirable to provide some substructure
                                within <gi>bibl</gi>, for cases where <gi>biblStruct</gi> is
                                considered inappropriate. After consideration, it was agreed that
                                the best way would be to allow <gi>bibl</gi> within <gi>bibl</gi> so
                                that for example information about a conference volume could be
                                grouped distinct from the title (etc) of an article in it. The
                                    <att>type</att> attribute should be used to distinguish
                                different use cases. Some examples were needed. We also agreed that
                                    <gi>series</gi> as a child of <gi>bibl</gi> should be deprecated
                                in favour of a nested <gi>bibl</gi> type=”series”&gt; </p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group D2: define generic dating class (ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2925145">2925145</ref>);
                                    <att>calendar</att> datatype (ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2994671">2994671</ref>) </head>
                            <p>With some reluctance at the proliferation of attributes implied, it
                                was agreed that some way of providing normalised date values using
                                something other than the Gregorian calendar was needed, both on
                                    <gi>date</gi> itself and on members of the current att.datable
                                class such as persEvent. The datatype for such new attributes would
                                probably need to be data.word . We felt that the name
                                att.datable.custom would be better than the proposed
                                att.datable.generic.</p>
                            <p>We agreed that the <att>calendar</att> attribute should become a
                                pointer element, pointing to some kind of definition for the
                                calendar concerned. If not externally defined, such new definition
                                would be provided by a new <gi>calendarDesc</gi> element within the
                                    <gi>profileDesc</gi></p>
                            <p>GB wrote up and implemented the calendar proposal. </p>
                            <p>MH subsequently clarified the proposed implementation for generic
                                dates as follows:<q>The following attribute class should be
                                    created: att.datable.custom It should be added to att.datable,
                                    alongside att.datable.w3c and att.datable.iso. The following
                                    optional attributes should be added to the class, with a
                                    datatype of 1-to-infinity of data.word:
                                        <att>when-custom</att><att>from-custom</att><att>to-custom</att><att>notBefore-custom</att><att>notAfter-custom</att>
                                    The following optional attributes should be added to the class,
                                    with a datatype of data.pointer:
                                        <att>datingPoint</att><att>datingMethod</att> In addition:
                                        <att>calendar</att> should be moved from att.date to
                                    att.datable. <att>period</att> should be moved from
                                    att.datable.w3c to att.datable. Finally, a new section needs to
                                    be added to the Guidelines to explain the use of these
                                    attributes. This can only be accomplished once action has also
                                    been taken on ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2994671">2994671</ref>
                                        (<gi>calendarDesc</gi>). </q></p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group B2: datatype issues </head>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060919">3060919</ref> :
                                We agreed that “confidence” had a useful mathematical sense, and was
                                quite distinct from the existing “low/medium/high” valued confidence
                                specified by <att>cert</att>. We agreed the existing att.ranging
                                class should also provide an attribute <att>confidence</att> to
                                express it, expressed as a numerical value between 0 and 1. </p>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060909">3060909</ref> :
                                We agreed to add <att>precision</att> to <gi>precision</gi> and
                                    <att>cert</att> to <gi>certainty</gi> each having data.certainty
                                values high,medium,low. Ticket has been updated and change made. </p>
                            <p>Ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2994671">2994671</ref> :
                                Datatype for <att>calendar</att>: agreed (and implemented)</p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group A4: new transcriptional elements for genetic markup (ticket
                                    <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3095640">3095640</ref>) </head>
                            <p>EP presented the purpose of each of these proposed new elements. We
                                agreed that <gi>modSpan</gi> was unnecessary if <gi>mod</gi> was
                                provided, and a member of att.spanning. We agreed that
                                    <gi>rewrite</gi> might be better renamed as <gi>retrace</gi>. We
                                noted that <gi>used</gi> was a special case of <gi>metamark</gi>.
                                Some felt the need for greater clarity about the distinction between
                                    <gi>undo</gi> and <gi>redo</gi>. Discussion chiefly focussed on
                                which of these elements, if any, should be permitted in the content
                                of <gi>document</gi>; EP felt strongly that all transcriptional
                                elements (these, plus the existing ones) should be permitted in both
                                    <gi>text</gi> and <gi>document</gi>; others were less sure. Some
                                of them seemed definitely non-documentary, others less so. </p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group A5: new <att>stage</att> attribute and <gi>stage</gi>
                                element (ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3095641">3095641</ref>)</head>
                            <p>We agreed that the idea of documenting writing stages in this way was
                                useful and feasible. We noted that stages of this kind were not
                                necessarily always chronological, but could be used for any kind of
                                grouping; also that a given stretch of writing might be assigned to
                                multiple “stages”.</p>
                            <p>Mostly we found it difficult to decide on a better name than “stage”
                                which was clearly too confusing in a TEI context. Alternatives
                                proposed were “layer”, “changeSet”, “stratum” or “phase”. LB
                                attempted a straw poll, the results of which were as follows:</p>
                            <table>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>name</cell>
                                    <cell>Favourite</cell>
                                    <cell>Acceptable</cell>
                                    <cell>Possible</cell>
                                    <cell>score</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>actionGrp</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>6</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>changeSet</cell>
                                    <cell>2</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>8</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>docStage</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>3</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>intervention</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>3</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>interventionGroup</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>2</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>7</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>juncture</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>layer</cell>
                                    <cell>3</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>12</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>phase</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>3</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>revCampaign</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                    <cell>1</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>stage</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>2</cell>
                                    <cell>2</cell>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <cell>stratum</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>3</cell>
                                    <cell>0</cell>
                                    <cell>6</cell>
                                </row>
                            </table>
                            <p> The scoring above gives 3 for a first place choice, 2 for a second,
                                and 1 for a third. Although <gi>layer</gi> comes out
                                well ahead of the rest, there is also a sizeable vote for some kind
                                of compound name, notably <gi> changeSet</gi>.
                                Combining the votes for <gi>actionGrp</gi> and
                                    <gi>interventionGroup</gi> with those for
                                    <gi>changeSet</gi> gives a total of (4,4,1) i.e.
                                21. </p>
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div>
                        <head> The Board Perspective</head>
                        <p>Martin Mueller gave an overview of some of the major issues and
                            challenges facing the TEI, from his perspective as Board Chair. Although
                            the TEI is widely recognized as the de facto standard for serious
                            scholarly editing amongst the digerati, mainstream literary scholars and
                            “library folks” alike seemed largely ignorant of its importance to their
                            work. This lack of perception and recognition needed to be addressed
                            urgently if we were to overcome the current serious budgetary issues. </p>
                        <p>He reported on some recent conversations with Google, and his own
                            experience of the difficulty of reconciling widely varying encoding
                            practice even within the TEI family. He noted that in 2015 the EEBO TCP
                            text collection would become public domain: perhaps this would be a good
                            moment to aim for in making their texts P5 compliant. It was hard to
                            make the case for good encoding practice when current text mining tools
                            could not take advantage of it. In discussion, we noted that librarians,
                            often operating with limited resources and needing to serve a wide range
                            of scholars, tended to prioritize making content available and usable.
                            Their focus was more likely to be on creating metadata to make content
                            accessible, rather than on rich encoding of text, which often involves
                            specialist knowledge of the material. In determining strategic
                            objectives and priorities for the TEI we needed to consider traditional
                            scholarly tools, but also how an industrial approach using baseline
                            encodings might best contribute to scholarship. How feasible might it be
                            to imagine a convergence amongst the many dialects of P5? He felt that
                            we should seriously consider reducing the number of different ways of
                            doing things at P6, though others felt that variety of approaches was a
                            major strength of the TEI. We agreed that there was need to introduce a
                            “deprecation strategy” to indicate clearly to the community the
                            direction we envisaged for the TEI.</p>
                        <p>EP asked about the status of SIGs and workgroups; specifically, who would
                            be co-ordinating them in future and whether there would be a report from
                            them at the next Members Meeting. LR noted that the SIG rules of
                            engagement required them to report to the Council. </p>
                    </div>
                </div>
                <div>
                    <head> Day 3</head>
                    <div>
                        <head> The How to Edit P5 document.</head>
                        <p>LB introduced the <ref target="/Activities/Council/Working/tcw20.xml">working paper TCW20</ref>. In discussion, it became apparent that
                            the document needed more background information, for example that “the
                            Guidelines” referred to the ODD sources, rather than the published
                            outputs; also it provided no information about how one might construct a
                            “local build environment” rather than relying on Jenkins for validation.
                            Maybe some kind of sandbox environment would be useful. So far we didn’t
                            know of any build environments not running under Linux, though it would
                            be excellent if someone developed one. </p>
                        <p>Some gaps in the document were deliberate: it does not tell you how to
                            use sourceforge or subversion. Any council member wishing to commit
                            changes to the svn repository needs to be registered as a developer with
                            the project; registration can be done by the current project admins (LB
                            or SR) and there are currently about a dozen developers. </p>
                        <p>To show what is involved in practice, GB then walked through his actions
                            in implementing and testing one of the changes agreed yesterday (adding
                            calendarDesc). </p>
                        <p>LB agreed to update the document further, possibly adding some tutorial
                            examples for common scenarios.</p>
                        <p>PB asked whether to add Polish translations to any specs he was working
                            on. Although these would not appear in the Guidelines until the
                            multilingual framework had been expanded to include Polish, this might
                            be worthwhile. He should check this with SR, as translation
                            co-ordinator.</p>
                    </div>
                    <div>
                        <head> Tickets: the final frontier</head>
                        <p>Following publication of the minutes, Council members wishing to
                            experiment with svn should volunteer to implement any changes specified
                            in them. Any agreed changes not implemented within one week of
                            publication of the minutes would be implemented by LB.</p>
                        <p>Reviewing the discussion of the genetic issues, Council agreed the need
                            for some way to represent documentary structure was entirely accepted,
                            as was the case for the additional elements discussed under A4 and A5.
                            Exact implementation details needed further discussion and clarification
                            however.</p>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group A6: Proposed <gi>object</gi> element (ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2811239">2811239</ref>)</head>
                            <p> This ticket appeared on the list in error, as it should have been
                                closed since the substantive work has already been done (by
                                providing the <gi>objectType</gi> element). If the
                                ticket requestor wishes to propose a new <gi>object</gi> element, a
                                new ticket should be opened. </p>
                        </div>
                        <div>
                            <head> Group B1: review content model of <gi>subst</gi> (tickets <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3080015">3080015</ref>, <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2859355">2859355</ref>)</head>
                            <p>Despite a lengthy and occasionally heated discussion, we were unable
                                to reach consensus about the content model for <gi>subst</gi>.
                                Several felt that it was only useful as a simple grouping of
                                    <gi>add</gi> and <gi>del</gi> elements which the encoder wished
                                to consider expressions of a single act of emendation, and that
                                hence it could not contain anything other than those elements, In
                                cases where this simple model did not work, for example because the
                                addition and the deletion were not contiguous, it was suggested that
                                a standoff <tag>join type=”subst”</tag> element should be preferred.
                                This seemed an excessively complex solution to the simple case where
                                the addition and deletion are separated by a single unchanged word
                                or by a linebreak, or (less plausibly) other milestone. Certainly
                                the Guidelines needed more examples and clearer guidance on when
                                this element should be employed. Eventually, it was agreed that a
                                subgroup comprising JC, EP, GB would discuss further, preferably
                                with input from others in the MS SIG such as Thorsten Schassen, and
                                other commenters on the ticket, and then report back as soon as
                                possible.</p>
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div>
                        <head> Deprecation</head>
                        <p>What does it mean to say that an element, attribute, value list etc is
                            “deprecated”? At present we do this only in the prose of the Guidelines.
                            We agreed that we should do more to make clear when this occurred. The
                                <att>status</att> attribute had been added to allow clear indication
                            in the ODD source for any identifiable component, but was not being
                            currently used, nor did any of the current ODD processing stack take
                            note of it. </p>
                        <p>We agreed that we should systematically add <code>status
                                =”deprecated”</code> for features having that status, and also
                            investigate the possibility of making the odd2odd stylesheet ignore such
                            components by default.</p>
                        <p>We discussed ways of announcing deprecation in advance of release notes,
                            and agreed to add “deprecated” as a possible category value on the
                            feature request and bug trackers (This has now been done). </p>
                    </div>
                    <div>
                        <head> Next face to face meeting</head>
                        <p>LR confirmed that he believed there would be funding available for a
                            further face to face council meeting before the end of the year. It was
                            hoped to hold this in Paris in early November. LR would circulate a
                            doodle to fix the date. </p>
                        <p>The meeting closed at 1430 with renewed thanks to KH for local
                            facilities.</p>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>

        </body>
    </text></TEI>