<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2012-04"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2012-04" from="2012-04-16" to="2012-04-18">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Ann Arbor</placeName>, <date>16–18 April 2012</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM050</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21906</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		<!-- <div class="teiheader"><filedesc><titlestmt><title><date notbefore="2012-04-16" notafter="2012-04-18">16–18 April 2012</date></title></titlestmt><publicationstmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno type="TEI">TC M 50</idno></publicationstmt><sourcedesc><p>Converted from google doc minutes taken during the meeting.</p>
<p>      </sourcedesc></filedesc><revisiondesc><change who="KSH" when="2012-08-03">Added note about inclusion vs. exclusion version of Lite.</change><change who="KSH" when="2012-05-28">Cleanup</change><change who="RTK" when="2012-05-24">Fixed encoding errors reported by KSH on
        2012-05-23</change></revisiondesc></div> -->
<p>
        <label>Present in person: </label> Piotr Banski (PB), Brett Barney (BB), Lou Burnard (LB),
        James Cummings (JC, chair), Kevin Hawkins (KH), Martin Holmes (MH), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Paul
        Schaffner (PS), and Rebecca Welzenbach (RW) </p>
<p>
        <label>Present Remotely: </label> Gabriel Bodard (GB) (via Skype), Stuart Yeates (SY) (via
        Skype) </p>
<div><head>
        Monday April 16th 2012</head>
<div><head>
          1.1 Morning</head>
<div><head>
            1.1.1 TEI – Google Books</head>
<list style="ul">
<item>KH and JC reported on progress with Google Books output of TEI.</item>
<item>After the last meeting, KH emailed Ranjith (the Google contact) with some
                questions, but hasn’t got responses yet. Ranjith also asked questions about TEI
                which would help him to market the service internally to Google, and JC created a
                Google doc to help answer those. All help with that appreciated – email JC for the
                URL. JC and KH may also be able to add metadata from the original MARC files from
                the public domain ECCO-TCP files which would make it easier for Google to process
                those files.</item>
<item>LB suggested developing some tutorial material showing how you can use Google
                Books-generated TEI as the starting-point for an encoding project.</item>
<item>There was some discussion about the level of error and accuracy, both in
                encoding and in OCR, to be expected from Google. SR wondered Why should we care
                whether Google gets TEI right or not? Just use whatever the best they can
                produce.</item>
</list>
<p><label>Action (KH, LB, PS, and JC)</label>: Get more examples from Ranjith of the current state
              of the output so that we can calculate some statistics on accuracy, and encourage
              Google towards making this output format public.</p>
</div>
<div>
            <head>1.1.2 TEI – EEBO / ECCO -TCP</head>
            <sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>There are three specific problems remaining in the conversion from EEBO-TCP to P5,
                two of which are in the spreadsheet from MM:</p>

<p>
                  <gi>signed</gi> : Is this a phrase-level element for only a signature, or is this
                  a block-level element that is really a signature block? If the latter, then more
                  structure is required within it. If there are multiple signatures, EEBO-TCP
                  encodes them as a list, which TEI doesn’t allow. The proposed action is to loosen
                  up the content model of <gi>signed</gi>.</p></sp>
 <sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>Once we loosen it up, we open the door to it having a lot of extra
                    structure.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>The Guidelines are very inconsistent on this; they show examples of
                      <gi>signed</gi> inside <gi>closer</gi> preceded by <gi>salute</gi>, as well as
                      <gi>signed</gi> containing the salutation within it.</p>
               </sp><sp><speaker>PS:</speaker>
<p>In many examples, there is considerable overlap between the signature and the
                    name.;</p>
                </sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>There are two distinct issues: the Guidelines problem (<ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3439980">bug 3439980</ref>), and the
                    issue of converting the EEBO-TCP encoding to TEI.</p>
               </sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>We should decide one way or the other, for example we could choose the
                    block-level <gi>signed</gi> option.</p>
                </sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p> In the case of the “RICHARD CUFF” example, how would we tag it if
                      <gi>signed</gi> were a block element?</p>
               </sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>Just as a <gi>name</gi></p>
               </sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>The purpose of <gi>salute</gi> is to mark a formulaic phrase which is some sort
                    of expression of politeness, whereas <gi>signed</gi> (in this new view) is the
                    whole block of stuff at the end of the document that attests that someone has
                    appended their name to it.</p>
               </sp><sp><speaker>RW:</speaker>
<p>Is a name required for a signed?; LB: No: “Yours etc.”.</p>
              </sp><sp><speaker>BB:</speaker>
<p>This raises the issue of the difference between <gi>signed</gi> and
                      <gi>closer</gi>.</p>
               </sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>We could extend <gi>signed</gi> and not worry about anything else, so older
                    documents won’t be broken, but “soft-deprecate” other usages by removing
                    examples of it from the Guidelines.</p>
              </sp><sp><speaker>MH and JC:</speaker>
<p>We should look at the content model of all of these things.</p>
               </sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: Create a council working group to look at this issue, and come back
                  with a clear recommendation before next council face2face.</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Lists inside labels: <sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>We can’t remember the context of that, so we’ll have to come back to it.</p>
                </sp><sp><speaker>PS:</speaker>
<p>It’s a minor issue that we can ignore it; it was an aberration in EEB-TCP</p>
              </sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: No action needed at this time.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p><gi>byline</gi> inside <gi>figure</gi>: Illustrations are signed or attributed
                  all the time, so we need a way to encode that; in EEBO-TCP this is done with
                    <gi>byline</gi>.</p>
               <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p><gi>figure</gi> can contain <gi>signed</gi>.</p>
             </sp><sp><speaker>PS:</speaker>
<p><gi>signed</gi> is a performative claim of authorship, whereas <gi>byline</gi>
                    is an attribution.</p>
             </sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>Are we trying to solve the EEBO-TCP import issue, or address broader concerns
                    about the content model of <gi>figure</gi>?</p>
               </sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR will convert the EEBO-TCP <gi>byline</gi> to <gi>signed</gi>,
                  which solves the issue of the EEBO-TCP import; the broader issue of
                    <gi>figure</gi> will be addressed in the discussion of <gi>floatingDiv</gi>
                  later.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p><gi>trailer</gi>/@type is used in EEBO-TCP, by analogy with <gi>head</gi>.</p>
              <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>If something is repeatable, then it needs @type. All agree and the record
                    should show this is a general principle when deciding whether something should
                    get att.typed.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR will implement this.</p>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
            1.1.3 TEI Bugs and FR: (Green)</head>
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3480609">3480609</ref>: <label>wrong license
                  description on some documents</label>
                <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>Someone needs to volunteer to check that every place where licensing is
                    mentioned are correct.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: RW will do this, and will report back about any inconsistencies. JC
                  will close the bug, and a new one will be opened for any issues which
                  emerge.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3472477">3472477</ref>: <label>AdBlock blocks
                  ‘msad’ ID</label>
                <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>We agreed on the telco to add a tei_ prefix to all ids.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>We could change all the ids in the actual source.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>This would be a major task, wouldn’t it?</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH will undertake to change the stylesheets to implement
                  this.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3471119">3471119</ref>: <label>em and en dashes
                  in the Guidelines</label>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH will implement the consensus (no spaces around em dashes used
                    parenthetically). RW will create the styleguide document with help from KH who
                    knows the CMS system already. The text style guide will be deleted.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3395448">3395448</ref>: 
<p><label>Action</label>: JC
                    will try to discover whether Virginia is technically still a partner or not.
                    When it’s resolved, KH will implement any changes to the website.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3511134">3511134</ref>: <label>html:@id on
                  reference pages showing attributes</label>
<p>General consensus that it would be a good idea.</p>
              <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p> Should we include something to distinguish atts from elements as in MH’s
                    suggestion on the ticket?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>GB:</speaker>
<p>We could use a prefix such as #tei_att_type or #tei_el_type.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>Another obscure format for people not to understand? Maybe simpler
                    solution?</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: JC and MH will conspire to implement this or something like this in
                  the stylesheets.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3437509">3437509</ref>: <label>soft deprecation
                  of @key</label>
<p>The proposal has already been accepted to soft-deprecate @key, by suggesting that
                  people switch to @ref. LB initially objected strongly to the deprecation of @key,
                  but was reluctantly convinced that gentle encouragement to use @ref instead (with
                  a private URI scheme) might be tolerable.</p>
               <sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p> There is no clear consensus on exactly what format magic tokens should take in
                    @ref, but we seem to be tending towards private URI schemes. General discussion
                    reveals that uses of @key in the Guidelines and in examples reveal some of the
                    disadvantages of it: it’s not clear in many contexts what @key values refer
                    to.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: KH will review the whole thread and make a recommendation about the
                  form of @ref, and make the soft deprecation changes to the Guidelines; these will
                  be reviewed by LB.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3432520">3432520</ref>: <label>Introduce
                  standard attributes to refer to ISOCat</label>
<p>SR and PB have almost finished implementing this.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR and PB to finish implementing this.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3046288">3046288</ref>: <label>allow f to
                  contain pcdata</label>
                <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>This has been implemented, but is awaiting some further examples for the
                    Guidelines.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: PB will contact LR and ask him to provide further examples.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3041605">3041605</ref>: <label>update list of
                  Council members</label>
                <sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>This is mostly done, but there are some historical details or old meetings
                    which need to be added, and it’s not clear where this could be placed. There’s
                    no place to mention the Kingston meeting, so it won’t be mentioned.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: KH will close the ticket.</p>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
            1.1.4 Amber Bugs/FRs:</head>
<p>These were divided into topical groups as suggested by email to council list as of
              2012-03-25</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Group A: LB, JC, GB, MH. 
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3497369">3497369</ref><label>(TEI Guidelines, p. 396 – XPath):</label>
                    <sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>The original typo is fixed, but the ticket is the only one relating to the
                        larger discussion of TEI Pointers.</p>
</sp>
<p>LB and JC suggest dealing with the topic on this ticket right now.</p>
<p>LB’s suggestion on the ticket is “I think the specific use of XPath in the
                      context of the location-referenced method for critical apparatus needs to be
                      considered and (if it’s applicable) exemplified in the Guidelines.” Expanding
                      on this, what it really means is that the @from and @to attributes, which are
                      xsd:anyUri, could take xpath(), and we should suggest and exemplify this in
                      the Guidelines. Use of @from and @to is possibly better than @loc (which is
                      data.word+).</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: (JC) Strike the sentence that’s under discussion, because then
                      the paragraph is less confusing. We should also add a new section (12.2.4),
                      which explains that you don’t have to use ids in @from and @to; you can also
                      use any URIs and XPointers with TEI XPointer schemes.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3497356">3497356</ref><label>(5 TEI Guidelines, p. 394 – external apparatus):</label>
<p>The suggestion is that <gi>app</gi> should be able to be organized into a
                        <gi>listApp</gi> element. The group consensus was that there is no
                      organizational principle by which different sets of <gi>app</gi> would likely
                      be listed separately, so there’s no need for a special element.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH will ask the submitter (and the TEI-L, pointing to the ticket)
                      for any examples of the use of <gi>div</gi> which suggest that
                        <gi>listApp</gi> might be useful (for instance, organization of
                      <gi>apps</gi> into multiple <gi>div</gi>s with @type).</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3496998">3496998</ref><label>(TEI Guidelines, p. 393 – <gi>lacunaEnd</gi>):</label>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB will add an additional example of how to combine
                      <gi>lacunaEnd</gi> inside a <gi>rdg</gi>. Ticket will be closed.</p>
</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Group C: BB, KH, RW. 
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3475748">3475748</ref><label>(inaccurate example in dictionary chapter):</label>
<p>The group agreed that in this ticket, Laurent’s proposal is consistent with
                      an example given in the reference page for <gi>usg</gi>, which explicitly
                      suggests using <tag>usg type=”style”</tag> to indicate usage such as “literal”,
                      so we recommend accepting this change. This should be implemented.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: KH will implement this change in the guidelines offers to do
                      this.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3440771">3440771</ref><label>(Multiple <gi>geo</gi> tags in <gi>location</gi> ):</label>
<p>While the prose of the Guidelines says “All uses of geo within a document are
                      required to use the same coordinate system,” prompting this ticket, which
                      wants to be able to have more than one, we found it actually is already legal
                      to have multiple <gi>geo</gi> tags in a <gi>location</gi>, as well as to have
                      multiple <gi>geoDecl</gi> tags in the header.</p>
                  <sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>the discussion comes down to: can you have multiple <gi>geo</gi>s within
                          <gi>location</gi>, or if you want to use multiple <gi>geo</gi>s, do you
                        actually need to use more than one <gi>location</gi> element to contain
                        them</p>
</sp>
<p>Council wants to better understand whether all geographic coordinate systems
                      are really capable of being converted from one to another (i.e., From any one
                      coordinate system can you truly derive the place’s value in another, making it
                      truly redundant to encode a location according to more than one system?)</p>
<p>PFS pointed out that in a single document you might need to use more than one
                      system (e.g. American Grid and British Grid)</p>
<p>Council agreed that it might be necessary to use more than one coordinate
                      system within a document, and since <gi>geoDecl</gi> is repeatable, it is
                      already possible to declare more than one coordinate system</p>
<p>Council recommends one <gi>location</gi> containing more than one
                        <gi>geo</gi> if the location is really the same place in the universe, but
                      different systems are being used to refer to it. If there is really lack of
                      consensus about the location (for example, Camelot), use more than one
                        <gi>location</gi>, each with its own <gi>geo</gi></p>
<p><label>Actions</label>: SR to coordinate, KH and GB to assist:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>document how to point from a <gi>geo</gi> to the <gi>geoDecl</gi> in
                        order to indicate which coordinate system is being used.</item>
<item>Remove from the Guidelines the statement that “All uses of geo within a
                        document are required to use the same coordinate system.” </item>
<item>edit the definition of <gi>location</gi> to say something like “defines
                        the location of a place as *one or more* sets of geographical
                        coordinates…” to indicate that more than one system may be used at
                        once</item>
<item>clarify relationship between <gi>location</gi> and <gi>geo</gi> in the
                        prose of the Guidelines</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3458222">3458222</ref><label>(<gi>choice</gi> as child of <gi>pc</gi> )</label>
<p>add <gi>pc</gi> to either pPart.edit or pPart.editorial (both were suggested
                      in the Sourceforge comments), but we aren’t sure which one</p>
<p>In sourceforge, Lou noted some text in the guidelines that would also need to
                      be revised—the implementor should take this into account</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB will add <gi>pc</gi> to pPart.edit and revise the prose
                      accordingly</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3439980">3439980</ref><label>(content model of <gi>signed</gi>)</label>
<p>There is inconsistency in how signed and salute are used.</p>
<p>One proposal is that signed and salute are siblings, you decide what goes in
                      each, and they are both contained by closer;</p>
<p>There certainly needs to be more distinctive definition of <gi>signed</gi>
                      and <gi>salute</gi>, which right now are nearly identical. In particular: if
                      we agree that <gi>signed</gi> depends on the presence of a name or the
                      stand-in for a name, this should be made clear in the definition of the
                      element</p>
<p>The “thine to command” example should be adjusted so that “thine to command”
                      is within <gi>salute</gi>, rather than <gi>signed</gi>. The same for “thy
                      repentant husband for his diloyaltie”</p>
<p>It was agreed that there is ambiguity between <gi>signed</gi> and
                        <gi>salute</gi>, but accept that there will probably always be ambiguity
                      here. For example, “thy repentant husband” might arguably go in either
                      place</p>
<p>When it comes to block of signatures: either </p>
<list style="ul">
<item>expand closer to include list, and enclose each <gi>signed</gi> inside
                          an <gi>item</gi> in the list or</item>
<item>Expand <gi>signed</gi> to allow a list, in which each name would be an
                          item</item>
</list>
<p>SR wants to know why we insist on sibling <gi>salute</gi> and
                      <gi>signed</gi>, since we all acknowledge its ambiguous/subjective. “What does
                      it buy us?”</p>
<p>A new <gi>sigBlock</gi> element was proposed, which would be a child of
                        <gi>closer</gi>.; A more general action would be to allow <gi>list</gi>
                      within closer. If instead we create <gi>sigBlock</gi>, we don’t need it; We
                      seem well-disposed to the idea of <gi>sigBlock</gi>, but BB asks us to
                      consider the name (and implications of ‘block’) to make sure its rational
                      across the other elements.; (MH and some others like the name)</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB to chair an ad hoc council working group to report back on
                      this, KH, LB, and PS to be members, others as necessary. (confirmed later in
                      minutes)</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3500088">3500088</ref><label>(French example of <gi>metDecl</gi> seems wrong)</label>
<p>Original ticket pointed out an error in an example, which has already been
                      corrected</p>
<p>In the comments, discussion turned to whether one might define more than one
                      metrical syntax by including more than one <gi>metDecl</gi> in the header. </p>
<p>Council agreed that this could be done (as with <gi>geoDecl</gi> above). In
                      order to point from an instance of meter to the appropriate <gi>metDecl</gi>,
                      use the @decls attribute. If this is not already stated in the Guidelines, it
                      should be added. the guidelines if it’s not already there. Need to assign
                      someone to do this.</p>
<p>In the SourceForge comments, MH suggested that the <gi>metDecl</gi> should
                      also specify what flavor of regex is being used, but KH pointed out that this
                      is already defined sufficiently in the definition of @pattern, so nothing
                      needs to be done here.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH to re-visit to determine what’s unclear and correct
                      Guidelines.</p>
</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Group E: PS, SR, PB. 
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3423686">3423686</ref>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR will nag the Ontology group as on the ticket.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3288293">3288293</ref>
<p><label>Action</label>: PB will add a new attribute to app.pointing, called
                      @targetLang.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/2724997">2724997</ref> and <ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/2507305">2507305</ref>: <label>These relate to
                      the linking of TEI texts to audio and video. The consensus is that there
                      should be at least a simple way to do this, but it’s not clear how best to
                      approach it.</label>
                    <sp><speaker>PB:</speaker>
<p>
                        <gi>timeline</gi> works for audio, and <gi>facsimile</gi> works for static
                        images; what’s required for video is some clever combination of the two.</p>
</sp>
<p>Consensus is that we need to create a working group to make
                      recommendations.</p>
                    <sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>We should make an open call on the TEI list for people who could
                        participate in the group.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: JC will write to TEI-L asking for people who are interested in
                      this area to get in touch. He will run the message by Council first. These
                      people will join a Council working group to come back with a consistent
                      proposal to be discussed later at this meeting.</p>
</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div><head>
          1.2 Afternoon</head>
<div><head>
            1.2.1 TEI and Schematron Tests</head>
<p>SR provided an ad-hoc lecture with slides in an effort to educate MH and others on
              how Schematron fits into the TEI build process.</p>
<list style="ul">
<item><gi>elementSpec</gi>s have <gi>constraintSpecs</gi>. <gi>constraintSpec</gi> has
                a scheme (normally isoschematron). Inside <gi>constraintSpec</gi>,
                  <gi>constraints</gi>s have <gi>assert</gi> elements, which have @test attributes,
                which are xpath; if the xpath tests false, the assertion will be fired, and its
                contents will appear on the console when you build or validate. There is also a
                  <gi>report</gi> element which is similar, but fires when true. In Roma, you will
                also get a schematron schema which you can also use to test your document against.
                This document is essentially a compilation in Schematron of all the TEI
                constraints.</item>
<item>P5 has a Test directory in which there are test instance documents for specific
                features, and ODD files which can be used to generate schematron which will be run
                against the test document. There are also “detest” documents which are designed to
                fail. When these fail, the results are compared against a number of known error
                messages, to confirm that the expected errors occur. The error messages expected are
                stored in “detest.log”. They have to be in the correct order, so the recommended way
                to do this is to run the process locally, and then copy the resulting log back into
                the detest.log. These are not well documented, and scrappily implemented; we need to
                be more methodical about how to do this, and in making sure that when we add or
                change elements, classes and attributes, we make an effort to imagine possible
                errors and write tests for them. There are also hand-crafted XSLT testing routines
                in e.g. Utilities/validator.xsl. Also remember that you don’t need to create tests
                for things which can be covered by your examples; the better and more extensive your
                examples are, the more problems will be caught initially anyway, because the
                examples themselves are validated at compile time.</item>
</list>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH will write a new section for “How to edit the Guidelines” which
              explains all this in more detail; this will then be checked by SR and LB.</p>
</div>
<div>
         <head>   1.2.2 TEI Exemplars (e.g. Tite)</head>
            <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>Who owns the existing exemplars, and who should be keeping them up to date?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>With a TEI example like Tite, there’s no mechanism by which a change in the TEI
                which should precipitate a change in Tite will in fact do so. There probably should
                be. If your define your customization by inclusion, you won’t get new elements, but
                if by exclusion, you will inherit more changes. This makes no difference, though, to
                the prose in the customizations, which ought also to be updated.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>Only Lite and Tite have prose text associated with them. They are also the only
                examples (at present) which are maintained by the TEI.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC and LB:</speaker>
<p>We undertake to try not to break any of the other exemplars, and they are tested
                during the build process.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>The contradiction is: even if we think we’re not going to maintain the prose of
                Tite and Lite, we are updating the ODDs themselves, so they can get out of sync.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>We should also remember that e.g. Tite might add its own element.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>Lite is definitely a document of its time. It could be orphaned.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>Tite has some bugs and frs on it, but is not actively under development.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>Can we make a decision about the future of Lite now?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>We should mothball Lite, and add a note to the effect that it’s old and no longer
                actively maintained, and that while he schemas will continue to change, the prose
                will not keep up with them. There is a version of Lite which is defined by
                inclusion, but the exclusion version is currently used to generate the schemas
                <note>Actually, according to tei-council discussion in July 2012, we have been 
                using the inclusion version for quite a while.</note>, so
                the schemas will keep changing with the addition of new elements, taking it out of
                sync with the prose (e.g. <gi>pc</gi> and <gi>postscript</gi>).</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>We should make sure the inclusion odd is up to date, regenerate the schemas, then
                carefully update the prose to match. At that point, we can package it and archive
                it, as a stable and unchanging resource for those who want to use it.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB and MH to make sure a new-style inclusion ODD is up to date,
              regenerate schemas and update prose to match. The result should be packaged and
              archived as a stable and unchanging resource.</p>
         <sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>We should do the same thing with Tite as above, because there’s no more funding for
                its development. There were different versions of Tite—the vendor Apex made some
                customizations—but the process of reconciling them is nearly complete. I would
                like to revisit Tite in future, but it should be archived first.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: KH will collaborate with LB and MH to carry out the same process of
              freezing with Tite.</p>
</div>
<div>
           <head> 1.2.3 Best Practices for TEI in Libraries</head>
            <sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>The SIG on libraries produced this document to emphasize interoperability, make
                more specific recommendations than the main Guidelines, and encourage TEI’s use in
                libraries. Now the question is whether the Council should be involved, and if so,
                how much; should we adopt the document and continue to maintain it, or should it be
                the responsibility of the original community?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>We could look for external funding to find ways of integrating the document into
                existing TEI practices.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>We could treat it as a case study, just as we did with the Genetic Editing group.
                But there are aspects of the document (such as the concept of levels) which may not
                have general application in the guidelines.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>It wouldn’t be unusual to have material in the Guidelines which is specific to one
                community. There are things in the customization that are more specific than could
                ever go in the Guidelines.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>Yes, the ODD is very restrictive. But that is useful in itself, as an exemplar. We
                could make the best practices ODDs, which are very restrictive, available from the
                TEI website list of community customizations, but not maintained by the TEI.
                Meanwhile, the Best Practices document could be examined by Council and all use
                possible made of it in moving forward with P5.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>GB:</speaker>
<p>The case of EpiDoc is parallel, in that it’s (now) a conformant customization of
                TEI which is highly prescriptive and restrictive.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>EpiDoc has a community willing to keep supporting it, but the libraries document
                seems to lack that community support.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>GB:</speaker>
<p>There is a large community of people using EpiDoc, and I produce a new EpiDoc
                schema every time there’s a new TEI schema.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: KH will make the customization available through the TEI website (we will
              not incorporate it into our build process because it’s too restrictive); the document
              itself will be mined for good ideas, and turned into a set of recommendations for
              changes to the Guidelines.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: KH to submit tickets for items to be added to the main Guidelines, since
              most of the items are likely to be independent and can be assessed separately.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
            1.2.4 TEI Bugs and FR</head>
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3496958">3496958</ref><label>(number of <gi>rdg</gi>s in <gi>app</gi>):</label>
<p>GB added a note to the ticket saying that the availability of a single
                    <gi>rdg</gi> is intentional and required.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: (MH) We leave the content model alone (it’s horrible), but we use
                  this as an example for Council to collaborate on the creation of one or more
                  Schematron constraints which will enforce the presence of at least one
                    <gi>rdg</gi>, to everyone’s edification. </p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3496954">3496954</ref><label>“or where no witness exists”:</label>
<p><label>Action</label>: None required, ticket closed.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3496951">3496951</ref><label>(@wit on <gi>rdgGrp</gi>):</label>
<p>The only reason we can imagine for the use of @wit on <gi>rdgGrp</gi> is as a
                  shorthand way to list all the witnesses who show up in a <gi>rdgGrp</gi> (although
                  this information can easily be derived from parsing the content
                  <gi>rdg</gi>s).</p>
               <sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>The availability of @wit on <gi>rdgGrp</gi> is an accidental byproduct of the
                    class system. We should modify att.textcritical so that it no longer supplies
                    @wit; then we add @wit explicitly to <gi>lem</gi> and <gi>rdg</gi>.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>We should actually define a new class att.witnessed which has @wit, and add
                      <gi>lem</gi> and <gi>rdg</gi> to it.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>This breaks backward compatibility, so we should send a message to TEI-L first,
                    to check that no-one is using it.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB will carry this out.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3496949">3496949</ref><label>(“ &lt;wit&gt;[unattested] &lt;/wit&gt;“):</label>
<p><label>Action</label>: GB will review the particular example mentioned on the ticket, and
                  revise and expand it: firstly, use a straightforward witness; secondly add an
                  example for the “unattested” case.</p>
</item>
</list>
</div></div>
</div>
<div><head>
        Tuesday April 17th 2012</head>
<div><head>
          2.1 Morning</head>
<div><head>
            2.1.1 Report from GB</head>
<p>GB re-opened a ticket closed yesterday: he believes that an <gi>app</gi> with no
                <gi>rdg</gi> at all is acceptable and deliberate. It might contain a <gi>ptr</gi> or
                <gi>note</gi> or <gi>lem</gi>, and maybe also <gi>ref</gi>. He would like the
              Schematron rule to not require a single <gi>rdg</gi></p>
           <sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>if GB can supply what the minimal requirements for <gi>app</gi> should be, then MH
                can write the Shematron rule to test for *that*, instead of specifically for
                  <gi>rdg</gi></p>
</sp></div>
<div>
           <head> 2.1.2 TEI Namespaces and Conformance</head>
            <sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>found guidelines confusing: in what cases, when you customize, should you put an
                element or attribute into a new namespace? Identified a few errors in text, at least
                one of which has already been corrected. Is it true that *any* customization that is
                *not* a pure P5 subset requires a new namespace? </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>Yes, because you’re modifying the elements that are there, which have been agreed
                upon by the council. It’s no longer the TEI element; LB and SR agree with JC</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>Say you added an attribute (like type) to an attribute class that didn’t have it
                already. Can you do this in a new namespace? SR says you can; JC agrees. </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>benefits of long-term clarity outweigh the annoyance of having to put namespaces
                everywhere</p>
</sp></div>
<div><head>
            2.1.3 Chapter/module fragmentation and consolidation (e.g. should things like
              ‘dates’ become a chapter of its own)</head>
<p>JC suggests Group E people report back if they discussed this.</p>
<sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>the group didn’t address this in break out because we planned to discuss as a
                group</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>realized that “dates” is only a small piece of the Names/Places chapter. Instead,
                should “dates” information throughout the guidlines be pulled into its own
                chapter?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>PB:</speaker>
<p>points there are other places where this this is an issue</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>Guidelines are full of cross references for this very reason</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>If separation this could de-couple the relationship between chapters and
                modules</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>if it’s fine to de-couple the guidelines from the modular structure of the schemas,
                we can instead think of them in terms of user-friendliness. Chapter 11
                (Representation of Primary Sources), e.g., which was proofread by the council in
                November is just too long</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>the Guidlines aren’t meant to be read through (though SR suggests that chapter
                structure suggests reading is suggested). This would be a major job—not a
                small/minor change; JC agrees.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>we can’t just do this piecemeal, by splitting dates and times into its own chapter.
                We would need to investigate the whole structure of the guidlines. Where would we
                begin? </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>the original suggestion was indeed to create a module just for dates, which would
                correspond to the new chapter. THis would break people’s ODDS/not backwards
                compatible. Such reorganisation maybe should wait until major structural changes are
                being suggested.</p>
</sp>
<p>GB and SY both recommend a more piecemeal approach. GB says we can go forward with
              dates and places without re-assessing the whole thing</p>
<p>SR, JC, LB recommend instead an overall analysis to establish
              principles/approach.</p>
           <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>main concern is for the html output of the guidelines to change—but from his point
                of view this could then lead to a change in modules</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SY:</speaker>
<p>If tags are used together, they should be explained together. If documents that use
                date also use place, then it makes sense to document them in the same place.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>Almost all combinations of elements could be used with each other, sometimes
                semantic groupings make sense, other times element usage cuts across genres and
                types of encoding.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>the Guidelines are deliberately top-down, because each element/attribute can be
                used in many different circumstances. The Guidelines explicitly are *not* meant to
                be derived from specfic use cases.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>statistical analysis of documents or schemas might be interesting, SR agrees it
                should be part of the big picture</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>if you go along with the assertion that the Guidelines are organized in a top-down
                matter, then a good reason to break off a section is that it doesn’t fit where it
                is</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>This was exactly the motivation for the discussion of breaking off ‘dates’.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>two models of organization: semantic areas, and levels of complexity. These
                compete.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>some usage of date and time is used in all documents—this should be in core (but
                core chapter is too big). Could do a whole chapter on “common features” </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>break core into a group of smaller modules like names, dates. Core could then pull
                these in</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>core should get you simple bibliography, dates and times, etc. (something like TEI
                Lite). Then you could pull in more sophisticated/advanced modules as needed (for
                dates only, for example)</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>if you have “basic dates” and “advanced dates” that’s even more confusing. Instead,
                wouldn’t be good to go to one page and get everything about dates and time</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>PB:</speaker>
<p>LB’s suggestion (above) might be an interesting way of maintaining TEI Lite</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>dating information is very relevant to name and place issues (e.g. birth,
                death…)</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>ODD dependency: if you’ve got places, you’ve also got dates (an old problem never
                solved)</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>if you pull out dates, why wouldn’t you also separate names, persons, places?</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: JC will close the ticket with “will not fix” for now, and keep this in
              mind of P6</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: JC will start a wiki page or ticket to discuss P6</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: SY will send an email to tei-l to encourage people to add their docs to
              the samples page to keep open the statistical approach in the long term.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
            2.1.4 TEI Examples</head>
            <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>this refers to our use of examples, and gaining more consistency in how we use
                them, and doing a better job to really typify the element they are meant to
                exemplify </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>want a way of filtering examples that truly exemplify the element you are
                interested in, and those that just happen to have a particular element in them; We
                want a way of indexing when an example is (or happens to be) a good example of a
                particular element</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>examples could be sorted according to rank/usefulness</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>when people use the guidelines, the first thing they do is look at an example and
                just try to find one that applies to their situation and copy it </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>is it a better use of time to assess/rank our existing examples, or come up with
                new ones?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>if each element had several examples, including some more complex ones, that would
                be good—if they don’t get too long </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>should there be a way of pointing to longer examples? Consensus is that fully
                worked examples would be beneficial.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>examples are down at the bottom, so is length really an issue?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>At some point do we decide that the Guidlines are not suitable for
                print/typesetting in PDF format </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>there’s already a mismatch between web and PDF: the “see all examples,” available
                on the web, no such thing in PDF</p>
</sp>
<p>Main conflict here seems to be that to do this well, need TEI experts to assess—but
              this will be a long, monotonous task. Is it a good use of time?</p>
      <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>There’s a disconnect between examples in chapters and examples in element spec</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>actually, the examples in the chapters tend to be complex edge cases, rather than
                good examples for teaching </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p> principle of beginning with a simple example, and either adding more complex
                examples or adding complexity to the initial example</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>One possibility would be to keep all examples separate in a corpus, and then
                include them into the guidelines or reference page </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>this doens’t work where the example is part of the exposition of the guidelines
              </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>It could still work, just duplication of examples.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>need a way of identifying and prioritizing the “canonical” examples—whether in the
                element spec or prose </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>start with the ones in the spec, which are by definition canonical, and then add
                ones from the text when appropriate</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>change the algorith that generates the “all examples” page to distinguish between
                canonical examples and “incidental mentions”</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>But what about cases that might be “canonical” for more than one element</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>how are we defining canonical?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>Maybe it’s canonical if it is complete—that is, the last stage of a tutorial
                example, that has all of the complexity in it (not the stripped down version that
                you might see at the very start)</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>spec is meant to exemplify one particular element, examples in guidelines are meant
                to exemplify how you might encode a particular phenomenon. (so would involve good
                examples of using several different needed elements and attributes)</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>danger of included examples falling out of sync with prose</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>when you look at the reference page for <gi>p</gi>, pull in the relevant examples
                from chapter docs. This is what is done now, but we need a way to discriminate among
                the examples</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>how to decide whether to put an example in the spec or the chapter? Examples might
                appear in element spec, chapter text, and “list of all examples”</p>
</sp>
<p>JC, MH: we want the list of all examples to be more useful—prioritized or sorted in
              some way</p>
<sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>for many people, the element reference is their only view/use of the Guidelines</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>we don’t currently exemplify attributes as opposed to elements—we could/should do
                this</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>would this cause the attribute examples to show up in “list all examples” of
                whatever element the attribute is on?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>could we have a third set of larger, more complex examples. Instead of canonical,
                think of significance: to look at all examples of <gi>p</gi>, is useless; </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>PS:</speaker>
<p>noisy examples can actually be useful in revealing what you can do if you need
                to</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>if an example is bad, we should get rid of it, not rank it lower or try to hide it
                in some way</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>RW:</speaker>
<p>is there some way to “reduce the noise” of examples by not displaying many examples
                of exactly the same usage? Problem is: this would be very difficult to do</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>if there’s a single example that excellently exemplifies more than one element, we
                only want to have to maintain this one in place, not repeat it in each element
                spec</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>one complaint: “I hit show all examples and there’s too much there to make sense of
                it”</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>people get here by just jumping right into the element reference, and scroll down
                to the examples, where there’s either one, overly simple example, or they click show
                all, there’s too much there to make sense of. </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>dense English prose is difficult for many people, so even if they click to the
                chapter (which they may not), they won’t read it</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>put the examples from the chapter at the top of the “see all examples” list—this
                might get us closer to relevant examples at the top. Consensus was this was worth
                doing.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>should we increase the number of examples in the element spec</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>as more and more people are writing element specs, much of the “intelligence” goes
                into the element spec, and not into the text of the guidelines. </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>We don’t provide many examples for attribute classes. att.Ascribed has no examples,
                and where would he go to look? <gi>said</gi> has examples, but none of them has a
                @who on them.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>every element that is a member of att.ascribed</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH look at existing pages for attribute classes and see if there are
                any examples, try adding an example to att.ascribed class spec to see if it
                works</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: Sebastian will tweak “show all example” so that at the top it lists
                examples from the appropriate chapter, and links to that chapter.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH to create a wiki page to coordinate adding examples to attribute
                classes. Since most attribute classes do not have examples, all of us should
                generate examples to be added to attribute class pages. Someone should coordinate
                this work? KH: create a wiki page where each class can be listed that is missing
                examples (or that needs more) and people can sign up</p>
<p><label>Action on SR</label>: change build process so that you can’t build without examples on
                attribute classes (this would have to be implemented later)</p>
</div>
<div><head>
            2.1.5 Group E: PS, SR, PB.</head>
<p>Reporting on tickets from grouping H</p>
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3434990">3434990</ref><label>Can <gi>lg</gi> contain only one <gi>l</gi></label>
<p>JC/PB: suggested that we change the prose to read “a <gi>lg</gi> contains “one or
                  more <gi>L</gi>” (LB has already changed)</p>
<p>PS: it could be the case that in a damaged source, lines are missing even if
                  there’s an <gi>lg</gi> there</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH will write a Schematron rule requiring that <gi>lg</gi> contains
                    <gi>l</gi>, <gi>lg</gi>, or <gi>gap</gi></p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3305016">3305016</ref><label><gi>table</gi> containing <gi>graphic</gi></label>
<p>can you have two <gi>graphic</gi>s?</p>
<p>Kevin proposed a content model in Sourceforge, SR and group felt it was fine.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR will implement the content model proposed by KH.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3416130">3416130</ref><label>allow for <gi>certainty</gi> within milestoneLike elements</label>
<p>putting content inside empty elements might break processors? SR doesn’t think
                  so</p>
<sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>not persuaded by argument to change content model of <gi>pb</gi>: concern that
                    allowing any content will open up a can of worms</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>GB:</speaker>
<p>adding <gi>certainty</gi> allows for using @match to use relative XPaths to
                    point to a parent element</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>this would bring milestoneLike elements in line with <gi>gap</gi>, which does
                    allow <gi>certainty</gi></p>
</sp>
<p>What about allowing <gi>desc</gi>? GB sees this as different: a way of adding
                  content to an empty element. SR says no, it’s a way of adding documentation to an
                  empty element</p>
<sp><speaker>BB:</speaker>
<p>what does this mean for editing the guidelines? Onus on us to describe how this
                    might be used. This would be in the attribute class.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>Would have to find every instance of, e.g., “<gi>lb</gi> is an empty element’ and
                    change in (and do this for every element in milestoneLike)</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p><gi>certainty</gi> is an empty element—so even adding it to an empty element,
                    the element remains “morally” empty: it has no human readable content</p>
</sp>
<p>PB it is an overgeneralization to say that something milestoneLike must be an
                  empty element. Rather, it is a *point*—not a span, division, or section. PS adds
                  that it contains metadata about the text or document (not anything from the text
                  stream). Also distinctions to be made between human-readable meaning of “empty”
                  and schema requirement that there are no child elements. That is, to a reader,
                    <gi>pb</gi> remains an empty element, even though it may have a child.</p>
<sp><speaker>GB:</speaker>
<p>perceives adding an element like <gi>certainty</gi> as adding an “enhanced”
                    attribute</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: GB will survey the guidelines to see what kind of changes this would
                  involve. He will report back via email, unless there is great disagreement the FR
                  should be approved and implement. If there is disagreement, address at our next
                  teleconference</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: JC will update the ticket in sourceforge to assign to GB and add a
                    note about our decided action</p>
</item>
<item> macro.paraContent out of place in <gi>gram</gi> etc [cf <gi>u</gi> discussion]
<p>link to ticket is broken, so group E did not discuss;</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: JC to find out what happened to this ticket.</p>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
            2.1.6 TEI Bugs and FR</head>
<p>Group F: PS, KH, JC, GB</p>
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3500566">3500566</ref><label>revise handling of ISBNs in <gi>idno</gi></label>
<p>Didn’t like b because we can’t come up with a short definitive list of @type
                  values.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: KH to implement proposal ‘a’ on the ticket: add new example to
                    <gi>idno</gi> elementSpec</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3497079">3497079</ref><label>clarify and rationalize encoding of pagination in bibliography</label>
<p>GB uncomfortable with not using <gi>biblScope</gi> in a bibliography (as opposed
                  to in a footnote)</p>
<p>Proposal seems not to deal with difference between part and whole of article
                  (analytic item) and part and whole of thing that article is in (monographic
                  item).</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: GB to write a comment on the ticket giving examples of citations that
                  would be problematic or confusing according to this proposal. Paul can also
                  provide example citations from his U-M CV project. Kevin will discuss with Gabby
                  and incorporate marked-up examples into proposal and revise proposal if
                  appropriate. Leave ticket open for now</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3440977">3440977</ref><label>Add idno to person (maybe also place)</label>
                <label>Action: Agreed: Suggest LR to implement. JC will contact him and report back
                  to us if he will not implement.</label>
              </item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/2493417">2493417</ref><label><gi>idno</gi> coverage</label>
<p><label>Action</label>: Agreed. Already agreed and implemented, KH to add more
                  examples/prose</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3480057">3480057</ref><label>Allow <gi>idno</gi> inside <gi>monogr</gi> without restrictions</label>
<p><label>Action</label>: KH to close.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bugs/3439587">3439587</ref><label>Problems introduced by content models of bibl and imprint.</label>
                <label>Action: MH will revise definition of <gi>titleStmt</gi> to no longer imply
                  responsibility for intellectual content only.</label>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH will investigate adding <gi>distributor</gi> and
                    <gi>publisher</gi> to model.respLike, noting that last time he tried to do
                  something like this, it got messy.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/fr/3513147">3513147</ref>
<p><label>biblStruct for Patent citations</label>: we found this recently opened and yet
                  related ticket but didn’t have time to look at it</p>
</item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div><head>
          2.2 Afternoon</head>
<div><head>
            2.2.1 TEI Bugs and FR</head>
<p>Group G: LB, RW, PB</p>
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3496494">3496494</ref><label>make attributes <att>from</att> and <att>to</att> (as pointers) part of a
                  class</label>
<p>Proposal is to create a class for <att>from</att> and <att>to</att> so that these
                  are defined and used consistently in all cases where they are defined as
                  data.pointer. Currently they are described inconsistently. <gi>arc</gi> should not
                  be a member because the semantics are slightly different. <gi>biblScope</gi>
                  should not be a member because @from and @to are used totally differently—not as
                  pointers, but to express start and end points of a citation. The explanation of
                  the usage of @from on <gi>span</gi> seems problematic (for example, there is
                  reference to “the end of the passage,” without explaining what is meant by
                  “passage”. However, the usage of @to and @from is slightly different for each of
                  these elements. So ticket will be closed once language is tidied up by RW.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: RW will adapt defintion of <gi>span</gi> to take better wording from
                  17.3</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3495987">3495987</ref><label>members of model.respLike should be members of att.declarable</label>
<p>MH’s case for what we think is described here: You have an orgList and want to
                  transclude the name of each <gi>org</gi> elsewhere in the document. You could do
                  this using @decls. But JC said that you would instead do this using @ref or a
                  similar from att.canonical.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB will ask Laurent for examples in case we are assuming incorrectly
                  and will look at TEI-L archives.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/2834511">2834511</ref><label>Add more elements to att.spanning with schematron constraint</label>
<p>If this was implemented, you would need both a way of rendering whatever the span
                  wants to do only on the text/content, or also on the markup (e.g., if a paragraph
                  ends and another begins within the span, is the rendering applied to </p>
<p> as
                  well as the content? Call for reassessment of this ticket. Nothing has happened to
                  it for three years, and meanwhile there has been other development of genetic
                  editing work.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB will add proposed Schematron rules but not add any other elements
                  without clear use cases.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3291540">3291540</ref><label>att.editLike should not bring att.dimensions and att.ranging</label>
<p>According to ticket, because att.editLike gives you att.dimensions and
                  att.ranging, lots of elements end up getting unneeded attributes. Ticket proposes
                  removing certain attributes from certain elements.</p>
<p>We all agree with the proposal.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR will take the ticket. We’ll leave it to SR to decide which of the
                  second list of elements should be included as well. Sebastian will send a list to
                  TEI-L so people could comment on any elements where it would be removed. If, in
                  the future, we might decide we “got it wrong” for some of these, so we could
                  change our mind if needed, but better if we don’t need to.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3284816">3284816</ref><label>att.canonical for model.persTraitLike</label>
<p>While some elements in the list already have the attributes requested, others
                  don’t. We accepted. SR will do any that don’t have them already.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR to implement.</p>
</item>
</list>
<p>Group J: MH, BB, SR</p>
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3415801">3415801</ref><label>Allow modification of attributes belonging to a class</label>
<p>This a valid thing to do, and we should implement it. We need to go through the
                  Guidelines and find places where a) an attribute is defined locally simply because
                  it has a valList or its own desc, and could go back to the att class, or b) the
                  constraint is expressed only in prose.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR will implement.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3118435">3118435</ref><label>classes in interleave mode and cardinality membership.</label>
<p>We cannot do this now, because it would stop us using DTDs. It is desirable, but
                  is a P6/ ODD3 feature. it should be recorded on P6 wiki page, and discussed at the
                  ODD3 meeting in Hamburg. Noted that it would mean revisiting a lot of content
                  models to see whether interleave was what was intended. Also not clear how
                  interleave in XSD is supported.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB will close ticket.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3426828">3426828</ref><label>more coherence on mode attribute on classes and attList</label>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR to close this ticket noting that requestor hasn’t
                  responded.</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/1650195">1650195</ref><label>Need Header element to reference or embed schema/odd</label>
<p>We can recommend use of <ref target="http://www.w3.org/TR/xml-model/">http://www.w3.org/TR/xml-model/</ref> in order to reference a
                  schema. Separately, if you want to embed a schema, use the new <gi>schemaSpec</gi>
                  (which will be added to model.encodingDescPart)</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH to implement adding <gi>schemaSpec</gi> to
                  model.encodingDescPart.</p>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
            2.2.2 TEI FR: Floating Div</head>
<p>A wide ranging discussion took place concerning the floating div proposal which
              council had reviewed. PS presented many examples of cases where it might be
              useful.</p>
<p>Do we want to:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Loosen definition <gi>floatingText</gi> to allow anything besides a full
                text?</item>
<item>Create new element for <gi>floatingDiv</gi> for anything besides a full
                text?</item>
<item>Tell them that what they think is a “floating div” is actually a
                  <gi>floatingText</gi>, <gi>spGrp</gi>, or a <gi>div</gi> that hasn’t been properly
                identified?</item>
<item>Remove the word ‘whole’ from element description of <gi>body</gi>?</item>
</list>
<p>Consensus emerged that many of the PS proposed use cases were solved with
                <gi>spGrp</gi>; and the rest with <gi>floatingText</gi> as more loosely defined. It
              was difficult to categorise a way to distinguish <gi>floatingText</gi> from proposed
                <gi>floatingDiv</gi>; more information and examples are needed.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: JC will reply to the message on TEI-L: In light of the current text and
              examples in the Guidelines on <gi>floatingText</gi> and <gi>spGrp</gi>, we’d like
              examples of proposed “floating divs” and how they would differ from
                <gi>floatingText</gi>s.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
            2.2.3 TEI ODD Meeting</head>
<p>Will be a panel at DH2012 discussing problems with ODD and future of ODD. TEI-C is
              funding a post-conference meeting (July 21-22) for room and some travel expenses to
              continue the discussion (about how to develop ODD3, which might happen before or with
              P6).</p>
<p>JC invited a number of people to attend and encouraged them to suggest others to
              invite. Approximately 15 attendees who will have expenses covered. JC will send
              invitaiton to TEI-L to allow others to attend at their own expense.</p>
<p>JC asked us what we would like the people at the meeting to address. Should they
              theorize about what ODD3 would look like if starting from scratch? Or offer concrete
              proposals for improvements to ODD?</p>
<p>We’d like to avoid just a list of complaints about how things currently work.</p>
<sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>do we want only things that are backwards-compatible? Are we open to requests for
                things like tools for processing ODDs that don’t require changing ODD itself?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>anything that is backwards-compatible could become a feature request in SourceForge
                now.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>PB:</speaker>
<p>perhaps we can ask them to propose solutions to particular problems we’ve
                identified?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>solicit topics in advance?</p>
</sp>
<p>JC pointed us to a <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/ODD-dev">list in the wiki</ref> which
              lists problems in ODD.</p>
<p>LB said he has started but not finished a proposal for resolving the Durand
              Conundrum.</p>
<sp><speaker>BB:</speaker>
<p>we might be asked to produce training and support materials for ODDs.; What other
                systems do people use for maintaining XML standards?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>NLM/JATS maintains a homegrown system developed by Mulberry Technologies.</p>
</sp>
<p>A list of other people, not yet invited, was suggested by Council to make sure were
              targetted with the public announcement. [JC has note of all individuals, but seems
              sensible not to minute them here.]</p>
<sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>worries that everyone at the meeting will agree with each other. We need a skeptic
                [SR suggested some].</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>We could ask others (Balisage folks, literate programming folks) after the meeting
                to comment on any proposals.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>Kevin Hawkins should invite Kevin Reiss.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>what we’re really looking for is prose to put into a funding application for what
                we want to develop. Need to list problems that need to be solved and the likely
                direction for the solution.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>please add additional suggestions to <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/ODD-dev">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/ODD-dev</ref> .</p>
</sp></div>
<div>
        <head>    2.2.4 TEI Release Process</head>
            <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>We need to make sure that all the steps are included and everything is explained
                for GB who is next release technician.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>There are problems in the stylesheets release process that depend on SR, but JC, MH
                and SR are fixing that process.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>GB doesn’t have access to a Linux machine, so that will be a problem/benefit in
                testing.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>Also need to make sure the process will work with Ubuntu Precise.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>A lot of documentation needs to be written about the testing process. Are there
                tests that we should be running but aren’t?</p>
</sp>
<p>Actually, our priority should be rewrite of Roma. If a pending Oxford JISC grant
              doesn’t come through, we should shop our application around to other granting
              agencies.</p>
</div></div></div>
<div><head>
        Wednesday April 18th 2012</head>
<div><head>
          3.1 Morning</head>
<div>
           <head> 3.1.1 TEI Outreach and Education</head>
            <sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>It has been suggested that the Technical Council should do more education/outreach
                activities, such as a newletter to go to sponsors reporting on technical and other
                updates</p>
</sp>
<p>JC suggests that the job of the Council is primarily the development and maintenance
              of the guidelines. Outreach is good, we’re all in favor, and while it is part of our
              mission, it’s not the main focus/mission of the Technical Council.</p>
<sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>we have a “moral” responsibility to step up if asked to, say, write about the
                current state of ODD; Consensus was that we would participating as individuals is a
                good idea.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>why did we fail to deliver on the tutorial last time we were asked? lack of
                resources, etc.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>GB:</speaker>
<p>the way to get the council to do something like this would be to make it a council
                duty. The question is, do we think this is high enough on our priorities to make it
                a duty? (The way to get it on the agenda is to put it on the agenda)</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>this would be at the expense of something else.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>BW and JC:</speaker>
<p>this is a good thing to do, but many people can do it. The development work done by
                the Council can’t be done by someone else.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>points out that there is some gray area: Council *does* spend time trying to make
                the examples and other reference materials more sensible and accessible</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>maybe Council should be focusing on developing the relationship with with the
                intermediate user</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>we’re responsive to tickets, but not proactively reaching out</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>sees marketing and outreach as primarily board activity; the kind of
                education/outreach that is being suggested seems closer to a Board activity. A
                report from Council and report from the Board could be included in each issue of the
                TEI Journal, but I wonder if that is really appropriate. KH thinks this is possible.
                BB is interested participating in outreach activity</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>No one can make the guidelines better without the involvement of the Technical
                Council, so there’s a level on which we must engage in some level of
                outreach/engagement</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>PS:</speaker>
<p>suggests training is most useful in the context of a specific project, and that
                abstract training is not so useful or desirable; MH and JC disagree</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>there’s a gap in knowledge/training at the intermediate level—that’s where it gets
                hard because of the specificity of any given project. It’s straightforward to teach
                intro level, and harder things like Schematron and ODD.</p>
</sp>
<p>KH reviewed bylaws: duties do include development of training materials and
              tutorials, or to make recommendations to the board about such things. JC would be
              happy to make recommendations Council developed.</p>
<sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>we develop and maintain educational tools like Roma which can be used as a training
                tool.</p>
</sp>
<p>General consensus: The technical council is entirely open to some degree of
              involvement in outreach and education activities but it generally views these as a
              board-led activities. We believe such activities are worthwhile, but don’t have the
              resources to drive any such effort and don’t feel it is or should be the core activity
              of the council. We are more than happy to contribute to such activities to some
              degree, especially on technical aspects. Individual members of the council may also,
              of course, participate separately as members of the TEI community if they have time
              available.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
            3.1.2 Creating small working groups:</head>
<list style="ul">
<item>The dreaded signed/salute/closer/trailer/sigBlock ‘Div-Liminal’: 
<p>JC proposes
                  an ad-hoc council working group for this. LB suggests the remit be a “div-liminal
                  working group” (covering divTop and divBottom). Lou will convene, Paul asked to
                  participate, will work on email and produce a report for the Council before next
                  FTF</p>
<p>KH suggests working on this this afternoon to produce a new report; JC could the
                  proposed group have an initial conversation about remit this afternoon;</p>
<sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>remit is to review all relevant elements and classes, determine whether they
                    are defined properly and whether their placement in the content model is
                    correct</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>PS:</speaker>
<p>has a sense of a proposal that will preserve much ambiguity where necessary</p>
</sp>
<p>Working group will be: PS, LB, BB, KH (with advice from rest of council where
                  necessary).</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB to chair working group will report back by next teleconference,
                  concrete proposal by next face to face meeting with status reports at
                  teleconferences.</p>
</item>
<item>Audio/Video Facsimiles: 
<p>SR will head up the council’s contribution to the
                  working group. LB and MH also interested</p>
<sp><speaker>PS:</speaker>
<p>Need to know more about existing practices and competing standards from outside
                    experts/users</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>Thomas Schmidt has looked most at how to use TEI for encoding speech</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>PB:</speaker>
<p>suggests Andreas Witt and people from Edinburgh</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>Linguists tend to be interested in this problem. Sociologists, folklorists,
                    local historians, may also may be good sources</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>KH:</speaker>
<p>Faith Lawrence also suggested by GB</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>PB:</speaker>
<p>start with a firmly known problem (e.g., what linguists need), and expand from
                    there.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action</label>: Working group to be chaired by SR, with LB, MH, and possibly PB; to
                  approach TEI-L and others doing work in this area to get outside expertise; an
                  initial proposal or detailed report of progress at next FTF with status reports at
                  teleconferences.</p>
</item>
<item>TEI and URIs @target/@cRef/@ref/@key: <sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>Some way to declare what you mean by your private URI in the header. There
                    should be a documented way to do this, that is machine-readable; Two separate
                    issues here: deprecation of @key and documentation of private URI scheme. We
                    might agree on the latter even though there is likely disagreement on the
                    former. JC would like to see both handled together.</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>if we are suggesting that people use private URIs instead of magic tokens,
                    because they can be validated, we ought to offer a place to explain the URI
                    scheme; cRefPattern is the model of what MH would like to do here</p>
</sp>
<p>SR suggests that GB has knowledge of the classical world where this is
                  particularly of interest; KH proposes that MH write up what he has in mind, then
                  shop it around for reactions/suggestions</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH will chair this going to be working group, bring in GB, SY, and
                  outside people suggested by GB. They will develop concrete proposals for next FTF
                  meeting with status reports at teleconferences.</p>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
            3.1.3 Any Other Technical Council Business</head>
<list style="ul">
<item>Autumn meeting will likely be in Oxford, perhaps before or after the EEBO-TCP
                conference (September 17-18)</item>
<item><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>what else is lurking that we need to prepare to address/work on for Autumn? Is
                    there something we should be aware of that has work being done on it? </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>GB:</speaker>
<p>there was a working group to re-write critical apparatus chapter but no word on
                    progress here; JC: a mailing list was set up with some conversation, but didn’t
                    progress further; Particularly hard to fix—some suggestions are on a wiki
                    page</p>
</sp>
<p>GB thinks the chapter may be OK as it is; LB: we could go through the proposals
                  on the wiki page ourselves. LB: proposes asking Marjorie for a report on the
                  status of this work</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: James will prod the critical apparatus working group before next
                  teleconference.</p>
</item>
<item><sp><speaker>BB:</speaker>
<p>Has there ever been a TEI SIG for periodicals (capturing existing)? MH says
                    there is a scholarly publishing SIG, but this is not the same as a working group
                    for capturing newspapers, for example</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>JC:</speaker>
<p>if such a group produced a best practices document or similar, that would be
                    welcome; MH is working on something with 19th century journals. MH and BB could
                    start a SIG.</p>
</sp></item>
<item>Why does the stylesheet build keep breaking? <sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>want it to be the case that the stylesheets are built first and checked, and
                    then used in the rest of the build (this is not the case now—the reverse); want
                    it to be the case that a change in the stylesheet build will trigger a build of
                    everything</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>this is all part of the process making the build and release process more
                    transparent and better documented. Aim is to get away from the fact that
                    Sebastian is the only one who can make stylesheet changes take effect in the
                    whole guidelines</p>
</sp></item>
<item>Council Meeting preparations: 
<p>PB noted that in Paris, JC assigned an action
                  to email SIG lists for a report before Council meetings, but this didn’t happen;
                  JC apologised and will rectify this before next teleconference.</p>
<p>PB suggests a checklist or similar for Council meetings preparations to make sure
                  everything is done, including asking SIG conveners for report; JC agrees. </p>
<p><label>Action</label>: JC to produce a Council meeting/telco checklist on TEI-C Wiki</p>
</item>
<item>Report from LingSIG (by PB): 
<p>developing bibliography in Zotero (tei-lingsig).
                  Meant to engage the linguistics community even outside of TEI. Currently 153
                  items.</p>
<p>Special issue of jTEI guest-edited by conveners (including article about the
                  bibliography)</p>
<p>PB will talk at ILIT (Eastern Michigan University) on TEI for Linguists; Opened a
                  project on SourceForge (beta)—hopes to make it easy for people to move around and
                  experiment in this space, create a space/sense of belonging for members, that is
                  more cohesive than just being on mailing list</p>
</item>
<item>Report on TEI and linguistic data analysis tools (such as UIMA) (by SY)
<p>SY wants to bridge the gap
                    between the output of <ref target="http://uima.apache.org/">UIMA</ref> and <ref target="http://gate.ac.uk">GATE</ref> and TEI; UIMA throws out everything that isn’t a
                  string of words in the document—metadata, comments, etc. They use XML, but rely
                  on multiple levels of stand-off/byte-offset markup—good for applying multiple
                  kinds of POS tagging and comparing differences; not so easy to roundtrip back to
                  TEI; SY has plans to develop a way to do this and bring it back to council for
                  review; LB: recommends existing literature on stand-off markup—how does this
                  project fit in? PB recommends papers he wrote with a colleague, recommending
                  almost purely TEI conformant approach for stand-off analysis of text, that handles
                  precisely this issue of multiple kinds of linguistic tagging. e.g. See LingSig
                  bibliography</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: SY will follow up offline w/ LB, PB</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: PB will put SY in touch with others working in UIMA and interested in
                  converting to TEI</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: PB and SYreport back to Council on progress by next FTF</p>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
            3.1.4 Bugs and FRs: any remaining</head>
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bugs/3454814">3454814</ref><label>Prune comments from TEI source</label>
<p>There are huge numbers of comments sprinkled through the Guidelines, dating back
                  to 1992 or before. While many of these are historically interesting, most are
                  irrelevant. Cleaning them out would be beneficial, but this must be done
                  carefully. In particular:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Comments inside <gi>egXML</gi> must be preserved (they are
                    displayed).</item>
<item>Commented biblio items can be removed after checking that there is a
                      <gi>bibl</gi> or <gi>biblStruct</gi> for them.</item>
<item>Informative/useful comments should be turned into notes.</item>
<item>Some comments (e.g. “&lt;!– Better example needed –&gt;”) are useful and may
                    remain.</item>
</list>
<p>When new comments are added (and especially when we commenting out blocks of
                  existing code because we’re nervous about deleting them), they should be
                  initialled and dated. Old code should be deleted after a week.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: LB will write up guidelines for purging comments and distribute to
                  TEI-Council list, including describing first passes to deal with low-hanging fruit
                  and suggested format for how we should comment going forward</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: from there, work of reviewing and purging comments or turning them
                  into notes will be divided among council members</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: RW will incorporate language from LB’s guidelines into the style
                  guide when appropriate</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bugs/3454803">3454803</ref><label>Review of language, script and region code recommendations</label>
<p><label>Action</label>: MH will compare Chapter CH against the latest version of BCP 47 for
                  inconsistencies</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bugs/3432216">3432216</ref><label>i18n revision due</label>
<p>There should be a list of translators and contact information for them so we can
                  reach them with translations need to be reviewed (KH reports that this does exist
                  in FM1, but it’s not up to date) GB: as a practice, he has been going ahead and
                  updating glosses in any language that he knows, as well as English. SR: if you
                  make a confident revision in another language, update the date of the
                  translation?</p>
<sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>the person who did the translation once, may not have ongoing responsibility
                    for the translation </p>
</sp><sp><speaker>LB:</speaker>
<p>if the translator is credited, others should not edit the translation without
                    that person’s involvement? Disagreement about whether our credit of translators
                    constitutes acknowledgment of a one-time translation task our ongoing editorial
                    responsibility for translations</p>
</sp>
<p>Agreed Policy: if you feel very comfortable about updating an element spec
                  translation, proceed with caution. Do not change the date in <tag>gloss
                    version=””</tag>. This way, the translator will see the change when they review
                  again.</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: SR: double check FM1 to see if list of translators is up to
                  date</p>
<p><label>Action</label>: KH will add this policy to the “how to edit the guidelines” working
                  paper</p>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bugs/3223636">3223636</ref><label>@xml:space vs. CDATA for blocks of code</label>
                <sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>when investigating how xml:space is supposed to work, it became clear that
                    there are contradictory explanations in the spec</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>because processors handle xml:space differently, it is difficult to describe
                    how this should be used;</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>Ask Oxygen and Saxon teams to make sure xml:space is being treated consistently
                    with (their interpretation of) the W3C spec?</p>
</sp><sp><speaker>MH:</speaker>
<p>people keep losing white space where they need to keep it. xml:space should be
                    a solution for this, but it isn’t.</p>
</sp>
<p><label>Action PFS and RW</label>: Expand our explanation of xml:space in the
                  Guidelines:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>in note: expand to acknowledge that many parsers may not handle xml:space
                    properly</item>
<item>clarify definition of xml:space’s “default” value to match the XML spec
                    (that is, “whatever the processor would normally do)</item>
<item>remove sentence in prose of guidelines in chapter 22 “the global @xml:space
                    is available to indicate that white space should be preserved within the content
                    of these elements”</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bugs/3393781">3393781</ref><label>@version in examples</label>
                <sp><speaker>SR:</speaker>
<p>@version was intended to link updates to translations to releases of the
                    English guidelines. Indicates the date of the state of the English guidelines
                    when this translation was updated.</p>
</sp>
<p>Leave @version as it is; change the attribute that we are using to indicate
                  revisions to translations to @versionDate</p>
<p>                <label>Action: on SR per LB’s comment on Sourceforge: Agreed to rename @version in
                  att.translatable as @versionDate and give it a date datatype. We don’t want all
                  the possibilities of att.datable.</label>
             </p> </item>
</list>
<p><label>Action</label>: JC to add TEI Sourceforge site to the TEI category so all TEI sourceforge
              projects can be located at once</p>
</div>
</div>
<div><head>
          3.2 Afternoon</head>
<div><head>
            3.2.1 Hacking for those working on things who don’t need to catch flights right
              away.</head>
<p>Div-liminal group (minus BB, plus SR) began brainstorming:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>LB defined the scope of the group to include assessment of elements in
                model.divWrapper, model.divTopPart, and model.divBottomPart (and their
                children).</item>
<item>In looking at the content models of <gi>opener</gi> and <gi>closer</gi>, he
                suggested that new model classes be created for these: model.openerPart and
                model.closerPart.</item>
<item>PS said he had been pondering the problem and think it’s best solved by the
                following: 
<list style="ul">
<item>Create a new <gi>signatory</gi> element for use of only designations of
                    signatories (names and phrases like “the late sergeant” that go with names). It
                    would have the content model that <gi>signed</gi> currently has.</item>
<item>The current <gi>signed</gi> element would have an expanded content model
                    including <gi>salute</gi> and <gi>list</gi>.</item>
<item>The <gi>salute</gi> element would be left just for “polite phrases” that
                    tend to occur before a signatory.</item>
<item>For example, this example in the Guidelines: <egXML xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/Examples"><closer><salute>I have the honour to remain, dear sir, your obedient servant </salute><signed><name>RICHARD CUFF</name> (late sergeant in the Detective Force, Scotland
      Yard, London).
    </signed></closer></egXML> would become: <egXML xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/Examples"><signed><salute>I have the honour to remain, dear sir, your obedient servant </salute><signatory><name>RICHARD CUFF</name> (late sergeant in the Detective Force, Scotland
    Yard, London).
  </signatory></signed></egXML></item>
<item>Another way to summarize his proposal is that he proposes to create a new
                    “super signed” or “signed block” (the new <gi>signed</gi>) and turn the old
                      <gi>signed</gi> into a <gi>signatory</gi>.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Implications of PS’s proposal: 
<list style="ul">
<item>Everybody who has a <gi>signed</gi> containing only text or phrase-level
                    elements could (but need not) change this <gi>signed</gi> to
                    <gi>signatory</gi>.</item>
<item>Optionally, they could (but need not) choose to wrap the new
                      <gi>signatory</gi> and any <gi>salute</gi> in <gi>signed</gi>.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>KH proposed an addendum to add <gi>dateline</gi> to the new <gi>signed</gi> as
                well. PS didn’t like this because then there would be essentially no difference
                between <gi>signed</gi> and <gi>closer</gi>. KH said he thinks of <gi>signed</gi> as
                being equivalent to <tag>closer type=”signed”</tag>.</item>
<item>Lou noted that under KH’s addendum we would have to remove “as a kind of heading
                or trailer” from the definition of <gi>dateline</gi> in order to turn this into a
                purely semantic element.</item>
<item>KH and SR debated whether <gi>dateline</gi> is structural or semantic. SR said
                it’s easier to write stylesheets if it can be assumed to be structural and
                block-level, but KH said he thought of it as semantic and phrase-level.</item>
</list>
<p>JC Thanked all those remaining Council members for participating.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>