<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2012-09"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2012-09" from="2012-09-19" to="2012-09-21">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Oxford</placeName>, <date>19–21 September
      2012</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM052</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p><p>Converted from google doc minutes taken during the meeting.</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21908</change><change who="KSH" when="2013-12-28">now links to archived version of notes from ODD discussion</change><change who="KSH" when="2013-06-20">Fixed error agreed to on tei-council on 2013-06-20.</change><change who="MDH" when="2012-10-01">Initial conversion from Google doc and cleanup.</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body>
		
	
<div><head>
        Wednesday 19 September 2012</head>
<p>Present:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Piotr Banski (PB)</item>
<item>Brett Barney (BB)</item>
<item>Gabriel Bodard (GB)</item>
<item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Kevin Hawkins (KH)</item>
<item>Martin Holmes (MH)</item>
<item>Paul Schaffner (PS)</item>
<item>Sebastian Rahtz (SR)</item>
<item>Rebecca Welzenbach (RW)</item>
</list>
<p>Location: IT Services, 13 Banbury Road, Oxford, OX2 8NP – Kennet Room</p>
<div><head>&gt;
        09:30 – 10:30
        </head><list style="ul">
<item>Review of action items from Ann Arbor FTF: <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/AnnArbor2012-Actions">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/AnnArbor2012-Actions </ref><list style="ul">
<item>The majority are done.</item>
<item>The official status or otherwise of the stylesheets: JC: should we start breaking
              out some parts of the repository into separate repositories. LB: The Guidelines should
              be in one repository and the rest somewhere else. MH: This would create some
              complications because there are links between different parts of the tree.</item>
<item>MH and JC have failed to implement the expanded unique <att>xml:i</att>d in
              guidelines. <hi style="italic">Action on MH and JC: implement expanded unique
              <att>xml:id</att> values in guidelines.</hi></item>
<item>Next release: release technician will be PB, and it will happen some time in
              October. Schedule to be decided later in consultation with PB. Probably near the end
              of October, and must be done by members’ meeting. <hi style="italic">Action on JC:
              Finalize release date with PB.</hi></item>
<item>Is Virginia still a partner? KH: Still pending. <hi style="italic">Action on KH: keep
              up the pressure for a decision on Virginia’s partnership.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3440771">http://purl.org/tei/bug/3440771</ref> is not finished. <hi style="italic">Action on SR:
                Ensure <ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3440771">http://purl.org/tei/bug/3440771</ref> is completed.</hi></item>
<item>Lite will be discussed later, along with Tite.</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511</ref>
              is not done. <hi style="italic">Action on LB:  Ensure <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511</ref>
              is completed.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on GB: submit a more detailed proposal for <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3291540">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3291540</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3439980">http://purl.org/tei/bug/3439980</ref> (div liminal) is not done, but LB is heading up
              the so-called div-liminal working group. One idea for it is to use a set of examples
              put together by PS, and this should be turned into a web application enabling people
              to tag examples live online, and we would then look at the results. This will be
              discussed later on the agenda. RW and KH think having such a tool would be a good idea
              for discussions on the TEI-L list etc.</item>
<item>A/V facsimiles will be dealt with later.</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3496494">http://purl.org/tei/fr/3496494</ref>
              is not done. <hi style="italic">Action on KH and RW: Look at the definition of
              <gi>span</gi> and the explanation in 17.3 to see what needs to be done there as part
              of <ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3496494">http://purl.org/tei/fr/3496494</ref></hi>.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Review of Action Items from teleconference: <list style="ul">
<item>KH: Investigate differences in TEI Tite documentation: Not much progress made yet.
              Waiting for a response from Apex.</item>
<item>JC: Suggest to TEI Board that SIG Coordinator post not be limited to members of
              Council: JC did so, Board is discussing SIGs amongst other reforms.</item>
<item>KH: Remind Council to look at Google TEI output. <hi style="italic">Action on ALL:
              identify anything we disagree with in their output.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on KH: continue to liaise with physical bibliography group in producing a proposal.</hi></item>
<item>JC: Produce summary report of TEI-ODD DH2012 meeting. Done, will be discussed
              later.</item>
<item>GB: Remind Council to read XPointer scheme proposal, liaise with authors with any
              feedback; to be discussed later.</item>
<item>JC: Produce Face to Face meeting details for attendees. Done.</item>
<item>JC: Ask Board to clarify process of what to do when a Council member resigns their
              post. Done.</item>
<item>MH: Summarize options to Council for archiving TEI Lite. Done.</item>
<item>All Council: Finish off Ann Arbor Actions; <hi style="italic">Action on ALL:
              continue to complete assigned actions.</hi></item>
<item>LB: Report back on transcription of speech and video workshop; Do so after meeting
              (still upcoming).</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Reports from SIGs (JC) JC has sent SIG reports out to Council list. See <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016257.html">http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016257.html</ref><list style="ul">
<item>LB: Board has suggested that should produce something like a newsletter or a
              similar kind of outreach activity which should include all of this sort of thing.
              Collecting these kinds of SIG reports would therefore be the Board’s work. JC: This is
              actually in the Council’s mandate, as the SIG coordinator currently is meant to be a
              member of Council, or more recently appointed by Council. LB: Many SIGs don’t actually
              produce much work relevant for Council. PB: SIGs are all different; some do
              Council-preparatory-style work, while others are less directly related to producing
              e.g. feature requests. PB: It’s a good thing for the chair to have regular contact
              with the SIGs to see if they have any concerns. RW: Perhaps SIGs currently respond
              with only semi-relevant responses because they feel they need to respond somehow. JC:
              Asking them for these reports is a fairly new thing, this may improve especially if
              Council Chair only asks if they have any issues they specifically want Council to
              consider.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Deprecation policy: We need to figure out what we’re doing. See <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Deprecation">KH’s summary of current
            practice</ref> and <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Talk:Deprecation">stalled discussion</ref><list style="ul">
<item>KH’s summary of current practice has a breakdown into soft deprecation and hard
              deprecation. MH: Could deprecation be done through the class system? Could we have a
              deprecated class? JC: Could that work with attributes defined on elements? LB: In
              addition to soft vs hard, there is also a distinction between situations in which an
              existing element or attribute has been replaced by a different element or attribute,
              and the case where a practice was previously sanctioned in the Guidelines, but we now
              think it’s a bad idea. What’s missing from the taxonomy is the situation where we
              don’t have a recommendation for a new way of handling it. MH: We should never
              deprecate something unless we do have a recommendation for replacing it. KH: A TCW
              should be created on deprecation. <hi style="italic">Action on LB and KH: work on that
              document, and bring it back to Council at the next FTF.</hi></item>
<item>Aside: discussion on trackers. LB says people don’t make the distinction between
              bugs and feature requests. MH: we could merge them, if for no other reason that the
              purl URLs would be shorter. JC: This would result in only 1 character different
              /TEI/BUG/# to TEI/FR/# so not really a reason for doing this. MH: But it would
              preclude the need to remember whether an item is BUG or FR; we’d only have to know the
              id number.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Private_URI_Schemes">Private URI
            Schemes Proposal</ref> (MH)<list style="ul">
<item>MH summarized the proposal.</item>
<item>LB and JC questioned the nomenclature because it’s too restrictive, and think that
              an expansion mechanism based on regexps should be more generally available for other
              purposes. MH: like generating XPath. <gi>listPrefixes</gi> (or
              <gi>listPrefixDefs</gi>) and <gi>prefix</gi> (or <gi>prefixDef</gi>) should be the
              element names, and <att>ident</att> should be used for the prefix attribute.
              (Discussion over tea break asked if this should be prefixDecl or something else).It is
              not an error if there is no <att>matchPattern</att> or <att>replacementPattern</att>.
              <hi style="italic">Action on MH: rewrite the proposal accordingly and bring this back to
              Council.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
        10:30 – 12:30</head>
<div><head>
            Ticket Breakout Groups</head>
<p><ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Council-ticketTriage">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Council-ticketTriage</ref></p>
<div><head>
              Tickets not requiring discussion</head>
<p>Initial plenary discussion of Green tickets. Four tickets at the top required no
              discussion, they just need to be completed by those to whom they are assigned: </p>
<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="italic">Action on LB: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3547934">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3547934</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on JC: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3540863">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3540863</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on MH: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3472477">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3472477</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on MH: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3432216">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3432216</ref>.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
              Previously ungrouped green tickets
              </head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555190">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555190</ref> (Improve guidance and restrict usage of
                biblScope). <hi style="italic">Action on LB: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555190">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555190</ref>.</hi>
                (This should be straightforward.) </item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3553304">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3553304</ref> (<gi>idno</gi> is not available within
                <gi>biblFull</gi>, while it is in <gi>bibl</gi> and <gi>biblStruct</gi>). This
                ticket is assigned to KH. He no longer supports making any change to the Guidelines,
                and any change would break backwards compatibility or would multiply encoding
                options to no purpose. <gi>idno</gi> is allowed in <gi>publicationStmt</gi>, and
                that’s where it belongs. <hi style="italic">Action on KH: close <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3553304">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3553304</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520704">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520704</ref> (Attributes without examples). LB: this is
                not really a ticket; it’s just ongoing work we need to do. KH: we should ask the
                community for help with this. JC: we should have a good go at this ourselves first,
                but then make a formal request to the at the members’ meeting for community help.
                <hi style="italic">Action on All Council: <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520704">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520704:</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3565137">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3565137</ref> (reconsider membership or use of
                model.glossLike). Already assigned to LB, who will carry it out. <hi style="italic">Action on LB: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3565137">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3565137</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565152">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565152</ref> (reference application/tei+xml somewhere in
                the Guidelines). On the ticket KH suggested a location for it. Assigned to MH. <hi style="italic">Action on MH: produce a draft for approval by Council based on <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565152">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565152</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3554294">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3554294</ref> (<att>xml:space</att>). This is probably a
                duplicate ticket. The previous one was done by RW. This is assigned to RW to check
                there’s nothing new in this ticket. <hi style="italic">Action on RW: Check that all
                action called for on <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3554294">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3554294</ref> has been carried out, and close the
                ticket.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547869">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547869</ref> (system entities vs. XInclude). JC: Some
                people may look at the Guidelines as an example of best practice, so it’s a bit
                silly to be using entities ourselves. KH: Is XInclude support widely-supported
                enough? PB: At this level, there is no difference in the toolsets we use. MH: It
                would be preferable to use XIncludes if we can. KH: This should be a low-priority
                job, but it is desirable. Assigned to SR. <hi style="italic">Action on SR: switch
                rendering system from use of entities to XInclude, if practical, per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547869">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547869</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3539329">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3539329</ref> (Inconsistency in data.name). (Related to
                <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398</ref>).
                Both assigned to MH. On the first one, the definition just needs to be copied into
                the four locations. <hi style="italic">Action on MH: for <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3539329">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3539329</ref>,
                copy definition of data.name into all four locations. On <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398</ref>,
                produce a list of candidate attribute values which might be constrained with
                Schematron.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520414">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520414</ref> (Example does not conform with description
                in Core chapter). LB: the original action is done, so this ticket should be closed
                and a new one opened to deal with the TEI-L discussion. MH will do this, and assign
                the new one to himself. <hi style="italic">Action on MH: close <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520414">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3520414</ref>,
                and open a new ticket to deal with linking of quotations and references.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3521714">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3521714</ref> (revise valList and valItem, revise ch. 22
                accordingly). This was assigned to SY, so it needs to be reassigned. Assigned to LB.
                <hi style="italic">Action on LB: improve wording per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3521714">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3521714</ref>.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
              Amber tickets
              </head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3531957">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3531957</ref> (allow a footer for a table). We are convinced
                about this; there should be a reference to model.divBottomPart at the end of table.
                Assigned to MH to carry out. <hi style="italic">Action on MH: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3531957">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3531957</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398</ref> (Need to implement Schematron rules for
                attribute values). LB: The best approach is to create a list of candidate attribute
                values that are amenable to Schematron constraints. Assigned to MH. <hi style="italic">Action on MH: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3511398</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511</ref> (Add more elements to att.spanning with
                schematron constraint). Assigned to LB. <hi style="italic">Action on LB: implement
                Schematron rules per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/2834511</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496949">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496949</ref> (Guidelines, p. 388 –
                “<gi>wit</gi>[unattested]&lt;/wit&gt;” ). Submitted by GB. The Guidelines simply need
                an additional example. GB will carry out version A of his proposal. <hi style="italic">Action on GB: implement proposal a) in <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496949">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496949</ref></hi>. </item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496958">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496958</ref> (Guidelines, p. 384 – number of <gi>rdg</gi>
                in <gi>app</gi>). MH previously carried out the Council’s intent to add a Schematron
                restriction, but Council now accepts that this was a mistake. Now assigned to GB to
                remove the constraint, and clarify the Guidelines text. <hi style="italic">Action on
                GB: remove constraint and clarify Guidelines text per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496958">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3496958</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3496494">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3496494</ref> (make attributes <att>from</att> and
                <att>to</att> (as pointers) part of a class). LB is not convinced that any of the
                uses of <att>from</att> and <att>to</att> could be put into a class. Assigned to LB
                to clarify the wording in the Guidelines. <hi style="italic">Action on LB: Propose new
                wording for Guidelines per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3496494">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3496494</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3291540">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3291540</ref> (att.editLike should not bring att.dimensions
                &amp; att.ranging). Re-assigned to GB, who will produce a detailed proposal for a
                fix, prior to implementation. <hi style="italic">Action on GB: create a proposal for
                Council to consider based on <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3291540">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3291540</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3284816">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3284816</ref> (att.canonical for model.persTraitLike). LB
                thinks each individual attribute proposed should be examined individually. In the
                process of discussing this ticket, we found and fixed a typo (<att>source</att>
                instead of <att>scheme</att>) in a spec. Action on this ticket: JC will come up with
                a slightly more detailed proposal. <hi style="italic">Action on JC: produce a detailed
                proposal per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3284816">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3284816</ref>.</hi></item>
</list>
</div></div>
</div>
<div>
 <head>       12:30 – 13:30: Lunch
  </head>      </div>
<div><head>
        13:30 – 15:00</head>
<div><head>
          Report on TEI ODD Workshop; ODD Proposals (JC/SR)</head>
<p>The committee discussed all the
            points in the summary report at  <ref target="/Activities/Council/Working/tcw26.xml">http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Working/tcw26.xml</ref>. The next action is for JC and Laurent Romary to coordinate
            the production of one or more papers for the Proceedings of DH 2012 laying out all the
            options discussed and proposing implementation plans for the high-priority items. The
            original meeting notes and the summary will be converted into TEI by JC. <hi style="italic">Action on KH: KH will find a place to put ODD meeting notes and summary, probably in
            TCW.</hi><hi style="italic">Action on JC: Convert TEI ODD meeting notes and summary to
            TEI and put on website; Liaise with Laurent Romary and other participants about a
            possible publication of a summary article for Proceedings of DH 2012.</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
            Resolving Durand Conundrum: c.f. (LB)</head>
<p>
    LB explained his Foxglove hypothesis (<ref target="http://foxglove.hypotheses.org/368">http://foxglove.hypotheses.org/368</ref>),
            and MH and JC are interested in helping to work on it. SR is concerned about the
            redirection of resources into this effort when other priorities are more urgent. MH
            wondered if this should constitute the beginning of P6 development, but LB and JC argued
            that this is neither necessary nor perhaps justifiable according to the Birnbaum
            doctrine which says <q>Such transitions [between major PX versions] should happen
            only in response to the emergence of new technologies (e.g., the transition from SGML to
            XML) or the development of a new architecture that conveys substantial benefit (e.g.,
            the development of the new class system)</q> and that this wasn’t a new
            architecture, just an extension of it. Council discussed the issue of whether this
            should be a priority or not, and it does not seem to be the case that there is any
            comparably long-term and large-scale project except for the proposed Roma rewrite. KH
            raised the issue of any changes to existing schema languages — how would such changes
            be reflected in our own language? JC, SR, MH and LB claim that any new, advantageous
            additions to any of the existing schema languages could easily be adopted into our TEI
            language. We could benefit greatly from being able to support more aspects of XML
            Schema, which is widely used in the commercial sector — for example, the ability to
            constrain content models differently in different contexts, which is possible in XML
            Schema but not in RelaxNG. In theory, you can already put XML Schema into a content
            model, and it would be valid, but it wouldn’t actually cause anything to happen because
            our processors are only expecting RelaxNG. Council in principle approves this form of
            resolution of the so-called Durand Conundrum, and awaits LB’s more detailed proposal or
            ODD. <hi style="italic">Action on LB: develop his Durand Conundrum paper into a specific
            set of proposals for a new <gi>content</gi> structure, so that we can then take that to
            the larger ODD-implementing community for work and feedback.</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
        XPointer Proposal (GB)</head>
<p>Hugh Cayless’s proposal is available here: <ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JsMA-gOGrevyY-crzHGiC7eZ8XdV5H_wFTlUGzrf20w/edit">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JsMA-gOGrevyY-crzHGiC7eZ8XdV5H_wFTlUGzrf20w/edit</ref>.
            GB proposes that we postpone this conversation, because there were objections and
            questions in the teleconference about it, and the working group has not had time to
            respond to those. <hi style="italic">Action on All Council: Council members (e.g. PB, LB
            and GB) will add comments directly to HC’s original proposal by the end of October, and
            then we will be happy to receive any further drafts of it.</hi></p>
</div>
</div>
<div><head>
        15:00 – 17:30</head>
<div><head>&gt;
              Ticket Breakout Groups
            </head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3440771">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3440771</ref> (Multiple <gi>geo</gi> tags in
              <gi>location</gi>). Assigned to SR to implement what is summarized in KH’s post on the
              ticket from April 16. <hi style="italic">Action on SR: Implement KH’s recommendations
              from 2012-04-16 in <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3440771">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3440771</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3439980">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3439980</ref> (content model of <gi>signed</gi>). Is a
              <gi>signed</gi> a block of things which can consist of a list of names etc., or is it
              the signature itself? Council concludes that this should be dealt with by moving
              <gi>signed</gi> from macro.phraseSeq to macro.paraContent (though that should be
              double-checked at time of implementation). BB makes the point that the examples have a
              range of different and conflicting examples, and none of them contain <gi>list</gi>,
              but LB holds that the examples should be left alone until the div.liminal working
              group reports on usage of <gi>signed</gi> by PS and LB is complete. Assigned to SR.
              <hi style="italic">Action on SR: change the content model of signed to macro.paraContent,
              check for unexpected side-effects, and rationalize all current examples to a single
              practice and add one with <gi>list</gi> inside <gi>signed</gi> (see <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3439980">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3439980</ref>).</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3526114">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3526114</ref>
              (add <att>type</att> to <gi>msDesc</gi>). JC has argued that since <gi>msDesc</gi> can occur multiply in
              the same e.g. <gi>listBibl</gi>, you should be able to distinguish them with
              <att>type</att>. Council policy has been that when <ident type="class">att.typed</ident> is
              requested on an element, this should be considered if it is repeatable and has clear
              use-cases where it would be classified. Assigned to GB to implement. <hi style="italic">Action on GB: add <gi>msDesc</gi> to <ident type="class">att.typed</ident> per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3526114">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3526114</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060867">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060867</ref>
              (Grouping traitlike, statelike, and eventlike elements). PB had started to implement
              this but got stuck when conflicts emerged between the repeated declarations of
              <gi>state</gi>. The solution may be to make all the statelike things available in
              <gi>list</gi>, and make <gi>list</gi> available in <gi>person</gi> and friends. GB:
              This would give rise to some oddities that we don’t currently have, such as
              <gi>country</gi> in <gi>person</gi>. Another approach is to answer the use-case with
              standoff markup, pointing to elements external to the <gi>person</gi> element or
              inside it. Many people are uncomfortable with using the generic <gi>list</gi> for
              this, because it would generalize the oddities to lots of other contexts. So the two
              options are to create a generic <gi>listState</gi>, and use Schematron and Guidelines
              recommendations to say that only the logical state- and trait-like elements can occur
              within it when it’s <gi>person</gi> or <gi>place</gi> etc.; and to create separate
              <gi>listPersonState</gi> and <gi>listPlaceState</gi> etc. elements, each of which has
              a separate content model and can occur only in a specific context. None of the
              proposed solutions seems to be universally popular. GB: leaving aside the name of the
              element, events, traits and states can all occur within a person element, but there is
              no useful way to group them; that’s really all we need. Are we talking about a list or
              a group here? RW: These groupings don’t seem like lists or groups. PB: We may as well
              just use <gi>list</gi>, because it would be less prescriptive. GB: We should go back
              to the original proposal of <gi>listState</gi>, available in <gi>person</gi>,
              <gi>place</gi> and <gi>org</gi>, and allow it to contain all the elements allowed
              inside the parent element. GB: Since it may be important to group these elements in
              ways which overlap, <gi>linkGrp</gi> and <gi>link</gi> may be more appropriate. This
              is available inside <gi>person</gi>. JC: it’s not yet available in <gi>place</gi>,
              <gi>org</gi> and <gi>event</gi>, so that should be remedied. Action: Respond with the
              suggestion to use <gi>linkGrp</gi> and <gi>link</gi>, and add <gi>linkGrp</gi> and
              <gi>link</gi> to <gi>place</gi>, <gi>org</gi> and <gi>event</gi>. We’ll discuss how to
              do that in the next ticket. Assigned to PB. <hi style="italic">Action on PB: add
              link/linkGrp to <gi>place</gi>, <gi>org</gi> and <gi>event</gi> per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060867">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3060867</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3536363">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3536363</ref>
              (rationalize content models of org and place). Discussion was diverted away from the
              ticket to the larger issue raised by Peter Stadler: <ref target="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=29144155">http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=29144155</ref>. GB: The
              proposal there was to suggest that we look at those different content models,
              rationalize them, create a model of the things shared between them, and create a
              separate model for that. <hi style="italic">Action on JC: create a proposal for the
              changes required per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3536363">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3536363</ref>, and with reference to <ref target="http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=29144155">http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=29144155</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3504690">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3504690</ref>
              (floatingDiv proposal). Council had previously rejected the floatingDiv proposal as it
              was, asking for new examples. PS provided three more examples: 
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://www.umich.edu/~pfs/divlim/samples_2/floatdiv1.pdf">http://www.umich.edu/~pfs/divlim/samples_2/floatdiv1.pdf</ref></item>
<item><ref target="http://www.umich.edu/~pfs/divlim/samples_2/floatdiv2.pdf">http://www.umich.edu/~pfs/divlim/samples_2/floatdiv2.pdf</ref></item>
<item><ref target="http://www.umich.edu/~pfs/divlim/samples_2/floatdiv3.pdf">http://www.umich.edu/~pfs/divlim/samples_2/floatdiv3.pdf</ref></item>
</list>
but Council still did not find these more convincing than the earlier ones.
              The Council generally agrees with the comment on the ticket to the effect that there
              is not enough convincing evidence for the need for <gi>floatingDiv</gi>, and will
              close the ticket pending any new concrete submissions. JC to close ticket. <hi style="italic">Action on JC: close <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3504690">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3504690</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3439587">http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3439587</ref> (Problems introduced by content models of
              <gi>bibl</gi> and <gi>imprint</gi>). KH: if we agree with MH’s use case, we should add
              <gi>sponsor</gi> and <gi>funder</gi> to <gi>editionStmt</gi> and to <gi>monogr</gi>.
              No objections were raised. LB: if the content models had <gi>respStmt</gi> changed to
              <ident type="class">model.respLike</ident> the desired outcome would happen. KH: This will work for
              <gi>editionStmt</gi>, but this might give rise to a non-deterministic content model in
              the case of <gi>monogr</gi>, so in that case we need to add <gi>sponsor</gi> and
              <gi>funder</gi> manually. LB: There is a simpler way: rationalize the content model of
              <gi>monogr</gi>. But this is not a simple task; <gi>monogr</gi> is a bit of a mess. We
              could try replacing the parts of the content model that include <gi>respStmt</gi> with
              <ident type="class">model.respLike</ident>. Assigned to KH to implement. <hi style="italic">Action on
              KH: replace <gi>respStmt</gi> with <ident type="class">model.respLike</ident> in
              <gi>editionStmt</gi>; then review <gi>monogr</gi> with the idea of simplifiying it and
              including <ident type="class">model.respLike</ident> per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3439587">http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3439587</ref>.</hi></item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div><head> 
        19:30: Supper</head>
<p>Supper: <ref target="http://www.al-shami.co.uk/">http://www.al-shami.co.uk/</ref>
            (Middle Eastern</p>
</div>
</div>
<div><head>
        Thursday 20 September 2012</head>
<p>Present:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Piotr Banski (PB)</item>
<item>Brett Barney (BB)</item>
<item>Gabriel Bodard (GB)</item>
<item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Kevin Hawkins (KH)</item>
<item>Martin Holmes (MH)</item>
<item>Elena Pierazzo (EP) (Visiting as Chair of TEI Board)</item>
<item>Paul Schaffner (PS)</item>
<item>Sebastian Rahtz (SR)</item>
<item>Rebecca Welzenbach (RW)</item>
</list>
<p>Location: Buttery, Wolfson College, Linton Road, Oxford, OX2 6UD</p>
<p>(Joined by Elena Pierazzo, Chair of the TEI)</p>
<div><head>
        09:45 – 11:00</head>
<p>JC welcomed EP to the Council meeting.</p>
<div><head>&gt;
            Roma Templates and Example Customizations
          </head><list style="ul">
<item>The purpose of this discussion is to align Roma and the TEI customization web
              page, and clarify categorizations of customizations (e.g., What does
              <q>experimental</q> or <q>restricted</q> mean?)</item>
<item>Two things to do: fix the language on the TEI customization web page (<ref target="/Guidelines/Customization/">http://www.tei-c.org/Guidelines/Customization/index.xml</ref> ), and decide what will
              be included in Roma as an available customization in the drop down list. In
              particular, is there a distinction to be made between things like Bare, Lite, and the
              MS or drama customizations?</item>
<item>Those who teach workshops using Roma like the pre-existing templates </item>
<item>MH: Roma should not appear to support things that TEI Council doesn’t support,
              because it leads people to think Roma is broken (i.e., community customizations should
              be clearly external)</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on LB: In Roma, split the existing <q>create
              customization from template</q> button into two options: <q>create
              customization from template</q> and <q>create customization from community
              customization,</q> which can be opened from a list in the wiki (<ref target="/wiki/index.php/Category:Customization">http://www.tei-c.org/wiki/index.php/Category:Customization</ref>) or the TEI-C
              Website. also remove the label <q>experimental</q> from those items in the
              drop down menu that have it.</hi></item>
<item>Spelling of customiz/sation needs to be made consistent. <hi style="italic">Action on
              MH: Normalize spelling of <q>customization</q> in Guidelines and
              Roma.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on KH: remove <q>experimental</q> and
              <q>restricted</q> language from TEI Customization page. Use instead:
              <q>the following are not available as DTD or XSD</q>.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on SR: give admin access to JC and MH to Oxygen TEI
              repository.</hi></item>
<item>If we go forward with pointing from Roma to the wiki page, Council should contact
              the owners of customizations and ask if they want to update/add to the
              customization.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
            Div.Liminal (LB)
            </head><list style="ul">
<item>LB proposes that we create a web app for letting people do sample encodings,
              gather examples via competition/community engagement.</item>
<item>Discussion of whether to offer pre-determined multiple choice options (more work
              upfront to create examples) or seek open ended answers (more work after to
              collate).</item>
<item>PS volunteers to collate results.</item>
<item>KH: make clear that people may interpret the guidelines as written, or propose an
              ideal/rational encoding not currently not currently allowed by the Guidelines. </item>
<item>MH: Exide might be a useful tool to use (<ref target="http://exist-db.org/exist/eXide/index.html">http://exist-db.org/exist/eXide/index.html</ref>. </item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on MH: provide tech support to existing div.liminal
              working group (LB, KH, PS) regarding setup of eXist and eXide.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on LB / PS / KH: Div.Liminal Working group will report
              back to council with rational proposals of how to deal with tops and bottoms of
              <gi>div</gi>s.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
              LingSIG issues (PB)
              </head><list style="ul">
<item>PB is introducing a LingSig experimental space on SourceForge. Wonders if TEI will
              be moving to GitHub. <list style="ul">
<item>Discussion of pros and cons of moving part of TEI repository on GitHub;
                conclusion that in any case P5 will be on SourceForge for forseeable future until
                clear benefits make a move inevitable.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on PB: <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561933">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561933</ref> is already assigned to PB.</hi></item>
<item>In answers to questions from PB, EP noted various details about the TEI
              Conference.</item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div><head>
        11:00 – 12:30</head>
<div><head>&gt;
            Ticket Processing
            </head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3555602">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3555602</ref> (Odd by example). Is it the Council’s place to
              maintain this, or should it be on the wiki? <list style="ul">
<item>oddbyexample.xsl is a stylesheet by SR that takes in lots of TEI that you feed
                in, and makes its best guess at generating an ODD from your encoding</item>
<item>It produces the older version of ODD: inclusion rather than exclusion.</item>
<item>Council agrees that the concept is great, but there is concern about feature
                request creep.</item>
<item>Discussion about whether Council should support freestanding TEI tools in the
                core repository (this would be a new category of stylesheets, etc. to
                support).</item>
<item>MH: two different questions: 1) just let oddbyexample sit in the repository? 2)
                Should Council actively seek to maintain freestanding tools?</item>
<item>KH updated wiki to document oddbyexample</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on MH: proof and expand wiki documentation for
                oddbyexample by KH <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Oddbyexample">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Oddbyexample</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on SR: review the tools, add ons, and other code
                currently in the TEI repository that perhaps should be removed (because they are not
                core to the functioning of the Guidelines).</hi></item>
<item>Wider problem: we need clear, obvious explanation of tools, add on, stylesheets,
                etc. because most users don’t know they exist/are available. <hi style="italic">Action
                on LB / KH: to find the text SR drafted, edit it, and tell KH where to put it on the
                website.</hi></item>
<item>Council agrees that for now, oddbyexample should be a separate add-on tool
                documented in the wiki, while a future Roma should consider supporting the
                functionality of generating an odd from your provided encoded texts.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3376456">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3376456</ref> (deprecate use of <gi>gram</gi> except as a
              child of <gi>gramGrp</gi>). Waiting on KH and LB to formulate deprecation procedure,
              as assigned yesterday. <hi style="italic">Action on LB: When deprecation procedure is
              formulated, deprecate use of <gi>gram</gi> except as a child of <gi>gramGrp</gi> per
              <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3376456">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3376456</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555191">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555191</ref>
            (New element &lt; citedRange &gt; for bibliography). 
            <list style="ul">
<item>Discussion of possible ways of citing a range cited, as opposed to the range of an
              entire work: <gi>biblScope</gi>, <gi>ref</gi>, or the proposed
              <gi>citedRange</gi></item>
<item>MH: if many examples of <gi>citedRange</gi> also include a <gi>bibleScope</gi>,
              this will help clarify the difference for users.</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on KH: create <gi>citedRange</gi>, allowing
              <att>target</att> to point out to a source. The full description of the cited range
              (e.g., volume, page, column, line) should simply be plain text inside
              <gi>citedRange</gi>. The content model of <gi>citedRange</gi> will be
              <ident type="macro">macro.phraseSeq</ident>. Change the gloss of <gi>biblScope</gi> from
              <q>(scope of citation)</q> to <q>(scope of reference)</q>; Returning
              to Council as needed for implementation advice (see <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555191">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3555191</ref>). In
              addition, implement new ticket (<ref target="http://purl.org/tei/fr/3570037">http://purl.org/tei/fr/3570037</ref>): add <att>unit</att> to <gi>biblScope</gi> and
              deprecate the use of <att>type</att>.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div>
<head>        12:30 – 13:30: Lunch</head>
          </div>
<div><head>
        13:30 – 15:00</head>
<div><head>&gt;
                Board Proposals for Council Consideration (EP)
                </head><list style="ul">
<item>EP reports on shrinking budget, institutional membership issues. Board is
                    assessing options for reducing costs, sustaining income, incentivizing membership.
                    Council is invited to contribute proposals, ideas and suggestions, either as
                    individuals or as a body.</item>
<item>Some ideas resulting: <list style="ul">
<item>Should one of the TEI Council Meetings be before DH Conference? (General
                      consensus seems to be it might be a good idea, though almost no existing council
                      members would directly benefit.)</item>
<item>Should the size of board and/or council, and/or the number of people who attend
                      each f2f meeting, be reduced? (Council agrees that even with a lower budget, we
                      would want to keep the same number of members.)</item>
<item>Should council have a limited amount of subsidy per meeting and more
                      remotely-participating members? </item>
<item>What is a sustainable/reasonable level of membership in the TEI consortium, both
                      in terms of cost, and size/influence of the member (a person, an
                      organization)?</item>
<item>Translations: Discussed difficulties of keeping I18N of element descriptions up
                      to date. LB mentioned translation memory systems, for example OmegaT <ref target="http://www.omegat.org/en/omegat.html">http://www.omegat.org/en/omegat.html</ref>.</item>
<item>Translation of the guidelines, website is one way to seek buy-in from European
                      communities.</item>
<item>Institutional membership has only been considered from the POV of the North
                      American university business model. In Europe, Asia, etc., institutional
                      contribution to initiatives like TEI-C are managed differently.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
                Documentation on writing ODDs
                </head><list style="ul">
<item>We have very similar information on writing ODDs <ref target="/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/USE.html#MD">in the
            Guidelines</ref> and <ref target="/Guidelines/Customization/odds.xml#body.1_div.2">on the
            TEI-C website</ref>. These should be merged into one place. Where should the merged
            documentation be? Can someone review each document to make sure it’s accurate before we
            ask someone to merge the two? <list style="ul">
<item><hi style="italic">Action on MH: review the ODD tutorial on the website and update
              it as needed. New ticket created for this: <ref target="http://purl.org/tei/bug/3570106">http://purl.org/tei/bug/3570106</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on KH: after Martin has finished updating the tutorial,
              synchronize the tutorial and the Guidelines by adding any
              <soCalled>essential</soCalled> bits from the tutorial to the guidelines (without
              turning the prose of the Guidelines into a tutorial), and checking for consistency
              between Guidelines and tutorial.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Questions for candidates (See David Sewell’s Email <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016259.html">http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016259.html</ref>) <list style="ul">
<item>Council would rather see a more detailed prompt for the candidate statement than a
              list of questions to be answered.</item>
<item>Council members who have further thoughts can send them directly to the
              nominations committee, or to JC.</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on JC: Council will discuss on list the precise wording of
              the prompt for the candidate statement; JC to initiate, and report back to nominations
              committee.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div><head>
        15:00 – 16:30</head>
<div><head>&gt;
                Ticket Breakout Groups
                </head><list style="ul">
<item>Group A<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565878">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565878</ref> (<gi>idno</gi> inside <gi>biblStruct</gi>)
                <list style="ul">
<item>LB has corrected the example in the Guidelines that illustrated <gi>idno</gi>
                  as a child of <gi>biblStruct</gi>, moving the idno within <gi>monogr</gi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on LB: Add some prose to this chapter of the
                  guidelines to put the <gi>idno</gi> within <gi>monogr</gi>, and/or
                  <gi>analytic</gi>, and/or <gi>series</gi> (as it applies).</hi></item>
<item>Council agrees to <emph>deprecate</emph><gi>idno</gi> as a child of
                  <gi>biblStruct</gi>. We should not make the change now because TEI has modeled
                  this (in example and its own practice) for too long.</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on LB: fix the TEI Guidelines bibliography so that its
                  <gi>idnos</gi> are inside <gi>monogr</gi>; see ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565878">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3565878</ref>.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3547289">http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3547289</ref> (model.gramPart and <gi>cit</gi>) <list style="ul">
<item><hi style="italic">Action on KH: to carry out the work set out by KH and Laurent
                  on the ticket (<ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3547289">http://purl.org/TEI/bug/3547289</ref>).</hi> This comprises: 
<list style="ul">
<item>Create a new model class (<ident type="class">model.structuredEntryPart</ident>) which
                    contains as members all of the current members of <ident type="class">model.entryPart</ident>
                    except for the grammatical features that can occur inside of <gi>gramGrp</gi>
                    (<ident type="class">model.morphLike</ident>).</item>
<item>Change <ident type="class">model.entryPart</ident> so that it includes as members
                    <ident type="class">model.structuredEntryPart</ident> and
                    <ident type="class">model.morphLike</ident>.</item>
<item>Change <gi>cit</gi> and <gi>nym</gi> to use
                    <ident type="class">model.structuredEntryPart</ident> instead of
                    <ident type="class">model.entryPart</ident>.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>This will break backwards compatibility and it would also require changing
                  examples that will be rendered invalid. We agreed to do these things
                  neverthelesss.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Group B<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561933">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561933</ref> (Encoding of Standoff annotations). <list style="ul">
<item>Council agrees with Group B who thinks that this will be a beneficial addition
                  to the TEI and that an we should have a container element <gi>standOff</gi> as
                  part of model.resouceLike which contains things like
                  <gi>linkGrp</gi>/<gi>link</gi>, <gi>seg</gi>/<gi>ab</gi>/<gi>s</gi>/etc. and
                  various other elements, including some new elements to be discussed by a later
                  working party.</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on LB / PB / MH / RW / JC: A working group including
                  LB, PB, MH, RW, JC will come back with a formal proposal for a standoff markup
                  container element. See <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561933">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561933</ref>.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3532022">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3532022</ref> (<gi>lg</gi> should be allowed in
                <gi>p</gi>). <list style="ul">
<item>Group B agrees with this one and thinks it should be added to
                  <ident type="class">model.inter</ident>, resolving any resulting ambiguous content models.
                  After significant discussion Council accepted this decision. </item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on MH: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3532022">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3532022</ref>.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3519806">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3519806</ref> (<gi>name</gi> should be a member of
                <ident type="class">att.datable</ident>). <list style="ul">
<item>Group B agrees with this one as well, <gi>name</gi> should claim membership of
                  <ident type="class">att.datable</ident>. Further rationalization of these should be
                  examined.</item>
<item>Council agrees that <gi>name</gi> should be a member of
                  <ident type="class">att.datable</ident>; it should probably also be a member of
                  <ident type="class">att.personal</ident> but this should be considered further by the
                  implementor.</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on JC: implement <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3519806">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3519806</ref>.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Group C <list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523791">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523791</ref> (an addition to <gi>timeline</gi> to record
                stretches of time). <list style="ul">
<item>EP proposes that Council revisit the way temporal linking is handled as a
                  whole.</item>
<item>LB expects that this will be addressed to some degree in the Berlin multimedia
                  meeting in October, from which he will report back.</item>
<item>Council agrees to close this ticket categorized as rejected. The Guidelines
                  already supports a way to do what SR is asking for, but agree that temporal
                  linking should be re-examined as a whole at some point in the future.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3518932">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3518932</ref> (Use <att>range</att> instead of abusing
                <att>from</att> on <gi>span</gi>) <list style="ul">
<item><hi style="italic">Action on GB: to submit a ticket requesting clarification in
                  the prose of the Guidelines on the use of <att>from</att> on other elements such
                  as <gi>locus</gi> and <gi>biblScope</gi>. Close the originating ticket <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3518932">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3518932</ref> as it
                  stands as <q>won’t fix</q>.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225</ref> (New attribute <att>keepHyphen</att>) <list style="ul">
<item>Council agrees not to fix this ticket because a better solution exists,
                  involving <gi>glyph</gi> and <gi>g</gi> as suggested by LB on the ticket.</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on EP: to find an example to incorporate into the
                  Guidelines demonstrating LB’s encoding solution for the issue raised in <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on LB: Add clarification of the issues raised in <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225</ref> to
                  the Guidelines (3.2.2) CO.html#COPU-2 existing discussion of
                  hyphenation.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on LB: to correct the definition of <gi>g</gi> in the
                  Guidelines: <q>represents a glyph, or a non-standard character</q>
                  following issues raised in <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on LB: to close <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3523225</ref> with
                  explanation.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div><head>  16:30 – 17:30: Discussion and supper plans
        </head><list style="ul">
<item>Supper was at <ref target="http://www.victoriaarms.co.uk">http://www.victoriaarms.co.uk</ref>, a nearby pub run by the Oxford Preservation Trust
            (British pub food).</item>
<item>SR offered punting up the river for some lucky members of the Council to the
            pub.</item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div><head>
        Friday 21 September 2012</head>
<p>Present:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Piotr Banski (PB)</item>
<item>Brett Barney (BB)</item>
<item>Gabriel Bodard (GB)</item>
<item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Kevin Hawkins (KH)</item>
<item>Martin Holmes (MH)</item>
<item>Paul Schaffner (PS)</item>
<item>Sebastian Rahtz (SR)</item>
<item>Rebecca Welzenbach (RW)</item>
</list>
<p>Location: Buttery, Wolfson College, Linton Road, Oxford, OX2 6UD</p>
<div><head>
        09:30 – 10:30</head>
<div><head>
            Financial issues</head>
<p>How much does the Council have left in its
              budget, and what should we do with it? Options are to save it for travel next year, when
              budgets will shrink; donate it back to the main budget; or use it for a code bounty for
              e.g. Roma rewrite (for which we might apply to the ALLC for matching funds). </p>
</div>
<div><head>
            Code Bounties</head>
<p>Code Bounties as possibility for money Council has saved through tight budgeting,
            institutional contributions, and savings because of agglomeration of current Council
            members:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>The two main candidates for code bounties are the Roma front-end and a second ODD
              processor. After some discussion, we came to the conclusion that in the case of an ODD
              processor, we would be open to the use of any language/platform, but in the case of
              the Roma ODD-editing interface, we would probably want to specify in advance a list of
              tools/languages we would feel comfortable with taking on, since Roma will be owned and
              operated by the TEI in the long term.</item>
<item>Other possibilities are: tools for working with ODDs, such as an ODD-diffing tool,
              or ODD visualization tools. Council agrees with JC that it would be a good thing if a
              new Roma were written somewhere other than Oxford, and preferably in the larger
              community rather than just by existing Council members. The exact specification for a
              new ODD processor would be very difficult to write, in that there are lots of aspects
              of ODD output which are currently undetermined. We could put out a general code bounty
              with a list of things we are interested in, and choose among the proposals we receive.
              KH: we have consensus that a new Roma is the sort of thing we know we need, and which
              needs to be in place before the TEI starts to rebrand and re-advertise itself. JC: it
              seems to be our view that the majority of a code bounty should go towards a rewrite of
              the Roma interface. Should it be owned by us, or should it be in its own repo in SF or
              GitHub? The consensus is that TEI-C should own a Roma rewrite. RW: it would be
              desirable for a new Roma to be open-ended in such a way that subsequently-developed
              ODD-processing tools could be plugged into it via some plug-in API. </item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on JC and LB: Resolved: JC and LB will produce a draft of
              a code bounty for a loose specification for a Roma rewrite, which will come back to
              Council for comments. This will include a list of preferred languages/tools, the need
              for a plugin API etc. Council aims to release a public call in about two to three
              months, with the idea that work will begin early in 2013.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
            Options for freezing and/or archiving Lite</head>
<p>LB has spent considerable time bringing Lite up to date, and now wants to publicize the up-to-date
            version. Options for freezing Lite:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>It is archived in the Vault and the link points permanently to that location, and
              Lite is never changed;</item>
<item>Every new release would include a new build of Lite, but we would not make any
              changes at all;</item>
<item>Or, we continue to maintain Lite (in the sense of fixing anything that gets
              broken, but not in the sense of adding anything new to Lite).</item>
</list>
<p>SR: this (the last) is the way we’ve been doing it for years. JC: This is why it
            got so out of date. We should freeze it and point at a static version. SR: That leaves
            us in the situation that a Lite version available through Oxygen may have an element or
            attribute that is at significant variance from the current version of TEI it’s
            distributed with. LB: One of the features of the TEI that we advertise is the
            possibility of building a schema against a previous version of the TEI. SR: That’s
            great, but it’s different from distributing such a schema as an official TEI product.
            MH: We could actually decide not to freeze it; it’s not very onerous to maintain it. KH:
            The same arguments apply to TEI Tite. JC: So it seems that we’re reversing our decision
            from Ann Arbor (2012-04) on Lite and Tite which was that we didn’t want to take on the
            maintence burdern of Lite. KH: It seems odd that the TEI would give up on its
            entry-level tutorial customization, which is one of its most popular ones. The big
            advantage of the Lite prose is that it’s a manageable overview of the salient features
            of TEI. SR: Perhaps <q>freezing</q> should mean freezing of the intellectual
            effort that gave rise to the original subset. <hi style="bold">Conclusion</hi>: we
            reverse our decision to freeze Lite, and will instead continue to build it with every
            release, as well as making an effort to keep the documentation up to date. This applies
            to Tite as well. In the release notes for the next version we will note that the prose
            has been brought up to date, and that the naming convention has changed.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
            Move TEI to GitHub?</head>
<p>Already discussed: we might think about
            separating out the Guidelines from other stuff, so individual scripts may end up on
            GitHub under other people’s control. There is an ongoing action for SR to gradually
            remove his non-Guidelines-related tools and utilities from the main repository, for the
            sake of clarity. RW: We also discussed the issue of moving to Git within SF; this might
            give us some advantages in terms of multiple repos or sub-repos. MH: Can someone be
            tasked with investigating all the features of Git on SF and GitHub, as well as the
            possibilities for granularity of permissions in SF’s Subversion, so we can answer these
            questions definitively? KH: It would be a good goal that everything not essential to the
            Guidelines should be in a separate repository, which lots of people could have access
            to, without the possibility of breaking the Guidelines tools. SR: My current plan is to
            cut back what is already there, and then fork it when it’s minimal Guidelines-only
            material. GB: Once this is done, we probably do have a reason to be working with Git.
            <hi style="italic">Action on SR: SR will continue his work to pare down the repository and
            remove non-Guidelines-related material.</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
            Deprecation of TEI P4</head>
<p>JC: The community has been warned
            previously that P4 is due to be deprecated, and now we need to take the steps necessary
            to enact that, such as remove its prominence from the website from November 2012. LB: An
            informal survey of well-known TEI projects shows that about 90% of them are still using
            P4. PS: Is it possible to generate a P4 schema now, using available tools? MH: PizzaChef
            still works, and is linked on the TEI website. JC: Existing P4 DTDs will continue to
            work, and Guidelines will still be available (from the Vault). We might as well leave
            PizzaChef available as long as it’s clear that it’s not supported. PB: P4 should
            definitely be removed from the Oxygen package. LB: We need to have a small publicity
            campaign and write to a small list of people who need to be reminded again (such as
            oXygen). PB: Oxygen does take statistics of who is using what; we should contact George
            and ask him how many people are still using P4 actively. LB: Note that other XML
            languages don’t have more than one version available (e.g., DocBook) in
            </p>
<p><title>oXygen/</title>.JC: Who else apart from SyncRO Soft and the TEI-L list should be
            contacted and warned? If anyone has other suggestions, let JC know. <hi style="italic">Action on JC: Contact stakeholders to remind them of upcoming TEI P4 deprecation;
            notify TEI-L community; Liaise with KH and David Sewell (TEI-C Webmaster) on changes to
            website.</hi>
</p></div></div>
<div><head>
        10:30 – 12:30</head>
<div><head>&gt;
            Ticket Breakout Groups
            </head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3556778">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3556778</ref>
              (retaining punctuation marks in the text of a TEI document). PB, BB and RW: There are
              four parts to this ticket, including issues with whether you should retain punctuation
              such as quote marks within an encoding, and if so, whether they should be inside or
              outside an element. Some members are reluctant to make clear recommendations one way
              or the other, but we should recommend that people document their practice, whatever it
              is. Chapter 3.2.1 doesn’t mention that you might use the <gi>quotation</gi> element in
              the header to explain your encoding practice, and it should. The implication of the
              Guidelines text is that you should include them, and this should be made explicit. A
              new attribute might be created which would enable you to specify whether quotation
              marks are inside or outside the element. This might apply to other punctuation marks,
              such as brackets around stage directions. MH: there are already ways to do this,
              including the use of <att>rendition</att>/<gi>rendition</gi>. BB: that’s not the same thing at all; this
              starts from the assumption that you have captured the punctuation marks, and you want
              to document where you put them. LB: The element <gi>quotation</gi> is too specific,
              perhaps, and should be <gi>punctuation</gi>. RW agrees. One proposal would be to
              introduce a new element <gi>punctuation</gi> in <gi>encodingDesc</gi>, and deprecate
              <gi>quotation</gi>. PB and BB are reluctant to remove <gi>quotation</gi>. Aside:
              <att>form</att> is deprecated, but the prose doesn’t say so. GB: Should we have a
              <gi>punctuation</gi> element that contains <gi>quotation</gi>? PS &amp; GB: This
              should be repeatable because different punctuation might be handled differently. LB:
              this (like other sibling elements) need not be machine-processable; that would be
              difficult to do. <hi style="italic">Action on RW and LB:define a new element called
              <gi>punctuation</gi> which is a member of 
         [<ident type="class">model.encodingDescPart</ident>] 
                <ident type="class">model.editorialDeclPart</ident> and
              <ident type="class">att.declarable</ident>, with prose content, and some attribute(s) defining the
              handling of punctuation marks. It should be repeatable.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3515805">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3515805</ref> (confusing semantics of <att>ns</att>). MH, SR
              &amp; LB: There was a discussion in January about whether <att>ns</att> means the
              input namespace or the target output namespace for the thing being created/described.
              The <att>mode</att> attribute indicates whether or not you’re intending to change this
              or just import it. On looking at the specific example concerned, it turns out there is
              no situation in which you need <att>ns</att> to specify the input; instead, you can do
              this by specifying a namespace prefix on the <att>ident</att>. <hi style="italic">Action on SR: Test Roma to see what it does with a namespace prefix on <att>ident</att>;
              clarify the examples in Chapter 23; create an attribute class to hold <att>ns</att>
              (instead of defining it separately on <gi>elementSpec</gi> and friends). </hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3548625">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3548625</ref>
              (Extend the enumerated values for <gi>list</gi>/<att>type</att>). KH, GB &amp; PS: The
              values given for <gi>list</gi>/<att>type</att> are a strange mix of presentational and
              semantic. However, making a change to this would be massively disruptive to existing
              documents, so a change is not recommended, but the Guidelines should be expanded to
              show more examples. Ideas for completely redesigning list should be added to the P6
              Dev page. To answer the ticket itself, we should add examples which use
              <att>rend</att> or the putative <att>style</att>. <hi style="italic">Action on PS: expand
              the Guidelines with more examples of the use of <gi>list</gi>/<att>type</att>,
              including some which use the putative <att>style</att> attribute; add a section to the
              P6 Development page to initiate discussion of future values.</hi></item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div>
<head>        12:30 – 13:30: Lunch</head>
        </div>
<div><head>
        13:30 – 17.30 </head>
<div><head>
            Experimental modules, lists of customizations, etc.</head>
<p>This arises out of a discussion in early September on the tei-council list.</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>SR should explain the purpose of providing downloadable customizations.</item>
<item>On <ref target="/Guidelines/Customization/">http://www.tei-c.org/Guidelines/Customization/</ref> and <ref target="/Guidelines/Customization/odds.xml">http://www.tei-c.org/Guidelines/Customization/odds.xml</ref>, are any modules
              labeled as experimental that should not be, or any modules not labeled but should be?
              (Note that currently the dictionaries module is documented differently on these two
              pages.) SR said that none are experimental any more.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
            Roma interface, supported customizations and documentation
              </head><list style="ul">
<item>Do we agree with SR removing MS, dict, speech, drama, and corpus from the
                <q>Create Customization from template</q> drop-down menu at <ref target="/Roma/">http://www.tei-c.org/Roma/</ref>? SR noted that
                Bare, Lite, and Tite make sense since they are coherent and have a purpose, and
                that SVG, MathML, XInclude, ITS, and ODD are also sensible since they involve
                non-obvious techniques which you can’t recreate easily in Roma. But the
                remaining five are are not meaningfully useful or documented, nor do they follow any known
                recommendation. JC said they were supplied here as simple example customisations.
                MH suggested separating out such options as “advanced”. </item>
<item>Should we provide templates for community-created customisations in Roma that
                are reasonably mature and well-supported, such as EpiDoc? What would be our
                management process for this? </item>
<item>Should we begin generating HTML and PDF documentation for any modules besides
              Lite and Tite (and putting them in <ref target="/release/doc/tei-p5-exemplars/">http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-exemplars/</ref>)? </item>
<item>For the two sections of customizations at <ref target="/Guidelines/Customization/">http://www.tei-c.org/Guidelines/Customization/</ref>: 
              <list style="ul">
<item> Do we want to rename the first heading <q>Customizations provided by the TEI
                Consortium</q> to <q>Customizations maintained by the TEI Consortium</q> or 
                <q>Customizations supported by the TEI Consortium</q>? </item>
<item>Can we clarify what <q>more restricted or experimental</q> means? These are not
                the same thing, and it isn’t clear what either means. </item>
<item>Do we want to set up a procedure for deciding what can be added to the <q>TEI
                Community Customizations</q> or for periodically revisiting those listed there? Even
                if not, should we just go ahead and remove MEP from the list since the links are
                broken and it’s a P3 thing? </item>
<item> Do we find the heading <q>TEI Community Customizations</q> clear enough, or do we
                want to add a paragraph here explaining it? </item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
            Review of the changes to the Roma front page</head>
<p>The Council
            drafted and redrafted the wording of the options on the first page of Roma. Changes were
            made in an effort to clarify the differences between working on a basic template and
            working on an existing <soCalled>complete</soCalled> customization such as Lite. It was also decided that
            the link to community customizations on the Roma front page should actually point to the
            Guidelines/Customizations page on the TEI website, rather than to the community
            customizations on the wiki page, which has some obsolete customizations, and is not
            informative enough to be useful. <hi style="italic">Action on KH: Improve TEI-C Website
            page on customizations.</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
            Ticket Processing</head>
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3519866">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3519866</ref>
            (<att>rend</att> from <ident type="datatype">data.word</ident> to text). 
            LB apologises profoundly for the typo on his ticket
            comment. The three options under consideration are: 
<list style="ul">
<item>Status Quo: <att>rend</att> stays the same (multiple non-sequential, space-separated tokens similar to html’s <att>class</att> attribute), clarified in Guidelines. </item>
<item>Allow space in <att>rend</att> (as per ticket request) and clarify Guidelines.</item>
<item>Space is only for multiple non-sequential tokens in <att>rend</att> but create new <att>style</att>
            attribute with a documented Formally Defined Language for it (and create <gi>styleDesc</gi>
            element or similar solution for documenting the style language used). </item>
</list>
            JC argued for #1,
            but in the end Council voted in favour of #3. Council then discussed at length the extra
            suggestion by LB that <gi>rendition</gi> and <att>rendition</att> be renamed to <gi>styleDesc</gi>
            and <att>styleRef</att>, to minimize confusion. Council voted 5 to 4, with one abstention, in
            favour of this. Since this was indecisive, and would have such backwards compatibility
            issues, this question should be spun off into a separate ticket and discussed over the
            next few months. <hi style="italic">Action on LB: implement the <att>style</att> attribute per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3519866">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3519866</ref>.</hi><list style="ul">
<item><att>style</att> will be created as string (<ident type="datatype">data.text</ident>) in <ident type="class">att.global</ident>.</item>
<item>It will be defined as containing a formal style language.</item>
<item>All three attributes (<att>rend</att>, <att>rendition</att>, <att>style</att>) can be used in
              combination.</item>
<item>A new element, which will be declarable, to specify the style language will also
              be created after discussion on council list.</item>
<item><att>scheme</att> on <gi>rendition</gi> should be moved into its own class, so that the new
              element can have it.</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Action on JC: <att>rend</att> references throughout Guidelines will be
              clarified to note it is a sequence-indeterminate bag of space-separated tokens.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3521288">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3521288</ref>
            (Dead Link for <ref target="http://www.ons.gov.uk/about-statistics/classif">http://www.ons.gov.uk/about-statistics/classif</ref>). The original ticket morphed into a discussion of the use of <att>scheme</att> and <att>code</att>;
            since the latter normally points to a subsection of the former, there is no need for
            both. <hi style="italic">Action on MH: The original issue of the broken link in <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3521288">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3521288</ref> must be fixed.</hi>
            (assigned to MH). <hi style="italic">Action on JC and LB: The <att>scheme</att> attribute should be redefined so that it need
            not point to a <gi>taxonomy</gi> element; it can point to an external scheme. Similarly,
            <att>code</att> should be defined as a pointer to some kind of external category or to a
            <gi>category</gi> element. A new ticket should be raised for this.</hi> SR: The use of these attributes duplicates the purpose of
            <att>key</att> and <att>ref</att>. This problem exists elsewhere (e.g. <gi>socEcStatus</gi>), so someone
            needs to look at the issue more generally. <hi style="italic">Action on JC: While working on 
            <gi>person</gi>, <gi>name</gi> etc. in another ticket, examine the parallelism between <att>scheme</att>, <att>code</att>, <att>key</att> and <att>ref</att>. </hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3522043">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3522043</ref>
            (Version numbers link to page about versions?) KH: The page we could link to at that
            point tells you about versions, but does not explain the numbering of versions; that
            information (including a link back to the Guidelines — the P5 page mentioned in KH’s
            last comment) should be included on the page to be linked to. <hi style="italic">Action on MH: Implement linking of the  “Version 2.1.0” at the
              bottom of each HTML page to something, possibly to
              http://www.tei-c.org/Guidelines/P5/#previous, or better, to something which explains
            what version numbers mean and then links on to the above location.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3416130">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3416130</ref>
            (Allow certainty etc. inside milestoneLike elements). GB and LB have stated their
            positions on the ticket, and GB has previously reported to the Council list on this. The
            main objection is that hitherto empty elements would now have content. LB: A compromise
            would be the introduction of a new class <ident type="class">model.metaMark</ident>, along with revision of the
            content models for the proposed elements from <code>(EMPTY)</code> to <code>(model.metaMark*)</code>. SR: this
            fails because <gi>certainty</gi> has <ident type="class">model.glossLike</ident> in its content model, so being able
            to put <gi>certainty</gi> in <gi>gap</gi> will bring the possibility of textual content
            in a <gi>desc</gi>. This makes many people uneasy because existing processors may
            suddenly start displaying text from the <gi>desc</gi> where nothing was displayed
            before. Following an inconclusive vote, this ticket was deferred pending further
            discussion on council list. <hi style="italic">Action on ALL Council: Discuss <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3416130">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3416130</ref> further.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3064757">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3064757</ref> (XML construct encoding within Schematron).
            Council voted to reject the ticket, but undertake to look at consistency of encoding in
            the existing Schematron rules. <hi style="italic">Action on SR: reject and close <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3064757">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3064757</ref>, but examine consistency of encoding in all current Schematron rules.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3475007">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3475007</ref> (New section on encoding text directionality)
            <hi style="italic">Action on MH: consult such people as D. Anderson, F. Sasaki and M. Bingenheimer, along with the TEI-L list, to put together a group to create a recommendation for a new 
              Guidelines section on encoding text directionality.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3480650">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3480650</ref> (<att>cRef</att> is a mess).LB and SR: Suggestion on ticket
            accepted. <att>cRef</att> will be moved into a class, and given the datatype <ident type="datatype">data.text</ident> (it must be
            so since canonical references can contain spaces). The bulk of the discussion on the ticket is
            tangential. The last part of the original suggestion is not right, though; <ident type="datatype">data.pointer</ident>
            is wrong for <att>cRef</att> because of the spaces. <hi style="italic">Action on LB: move <att>cRef</att> into a class, and give it the datatype <ident type="datatype">data.text</ident> per <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3480650">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3480650</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3413346">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3413346</ref> (Deprecation of <ident type="datatype">data.key</ident> and <ident type="datatype">data.word</ident>
            attributes). GB &amp; JC: The main conclusion was that most of the ticket needs more
            discussion, so the ticket should remain open. Some of the proposals in the ticket (e.g.
            that a handful of attributes such as <att>lemma</att> etc. would be better served by a pointer of
            some kind) are wrong, however. Reassigned back to MH, who proposed it, to close this
            ticket and open a cleaner one on the topic of deprecation of data.key. <hi style="italic">Action on MH: close <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3413346">http://purl.org/TEI/Bug/3413346</ref> and open a cleaner ticket on the topic of deprecation of <ident type="datatype">data.key</ident>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547558">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547558</ref> (*Spec elements could have <gi>keywords</gi> or
            use <att>ana</att>). BB &amp; MH: We suggest that you could just create <gi>classSpec</gi>s for this
            purpose, instead of using another mechanism.The <gi>classSpec</gi> might have only this purpose.
            This would require the addition of an extra value for <gi>classSpec</gi>/<att>type</att>, something like
            <code>adhoc</code>, since such a class would be neither an attribute class nor a model class, but
            other than that, nothing disruptive would result, and a full description of what is
            meant by the categorization could be supplied in the <gi>classSpec</gi>. If at some point you
            wanted to do something with the class, you could make use of it in your <gi>schemaSpec</gi>, and
            change its <att>type</att> from <code>adhoc</code> to something else. LB feels this proposal is too vague to be
            useful because of the absence of use-cases. <hi style="italic">Action on JC: add more use-cases to <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547558">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3547558</ref>.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561938">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561938</ref> (New tag element for grouping elements). PS
            &amp; RW: As described, the ticket is very broad, and would require a meta-element of
            which all the existing elements would be children. As stated, it’s far too large and
            vague; the use-cases are all met by existing mechanisms; and the stated reasons such as
            improved processing speed are red herrings. Ticket to be rejected and closed. Assigned
            to MH. <hi style="italic">Action on MH: Reject and close <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561938">http://purl.org/TEI/FR/3561938</ref> with an explanation.</hi></item>
<item><ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3523082">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3523082</ref> (XPointer schemes may not nest, but see ch.
            16). <hi style="italic">Action on GB: incorporate <ref target="http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3523082">http://purl.org/TEI/BUGS/3523082</ref> into the SOM group discussion of TEI Pointers.</hi></item>
<item>Final discussion on release date and plan: PB will be the release technician.
            Release day will be determined by PB’s schedule, and all source changes must be
            submitted three days before release day. Following that, all Council members must proof
            and check for errors and inconsistencies. <hi style="italic">Action on JC: Organize Council
            work for next release.</hi></item>
<item>Council discussed the scheduling of meetings, specifically whether we should
            piggy-back on e.g. the DH conference instead of having separate meetings. The consensus
            was that there currently is no significant advantage to trying to do this, since there
            is no conference where more than a few members are likely to go. </item>
<item>JC thanked all Council members for their time and commitment and reminded them to
            attend to tickets and actions assigned to them.</item>
</list>
</div></div>
</div>
</body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>