<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2012-08"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2012-08" when="2012-08-09">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>9 August 2012</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM051</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21907</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		<!-- <div class="teiheader"><filedesc><titlestmt><title><date when="2012-08-09">9 August
                    2012</date></title></titlestmt><publicationstmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno type="TEI">TC M 51</idno></publicationstmt><sourcedesc><p>Converted from google doc minutes taken during the meeting.</p>
<p>            </sourcedesc></filedesc></div> -->
<p>Present:  Brett Barney (BB), Lou Burnard (LB), James Cummings (JC; Chair), Kevin Hawkins (KH), Martin Holmes (MH; minutes), Paul Schaffner (PS), Rebecca Welzenbach (RW)</p>
<p>Apologies: Gabriel Bodard (GB), Sebastian Rahtz (SPQR), Piotr Banski (PB)</p>
<div><head>
    Actions Arising</head>
<list style="ul">
<item><label>KH:</label> Investigate differences in TEI Tite documentation</item>
<item><label>JC:</label> Suggest to TEI Board that SIG Coordinator post not be limited to members of Council</item>
<item><label>KH:</label> Remind Council to look at Google TEI output</item>
<item><label>KH:</label> Liaise with physical bibliography workgroup in producing a proposal</item>
<item><label>JC:</label> Produce summary report of TEI-ODD DH2012 meeting</item>
<item><label>GB:</label> Remind Council to read XPointer scheme proposal, liaise with authors with any feedback</item>
<item><label>JC:</label> Produce Face to Face meeting details for attendees</item>
<item><label>JC:</label> Ask Board to clarify process of what to do when a Council member resigns their post</item>
<item><label>MH:</label> Summarize options to Council for archiving TEI Lite</item>
<item><label>All Council:</label> Finish off Ann Arbor Actions</item>
<item><label>LB:</label> Report back on transcription of speech and video workshop</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                 Brief Reports </head>
<div><head>
                     TEI Tite (KH) </head>
<p>KH has been trying to synchronize the Apex and TEI versions of Tite. There
                        are things in the Apex prose docs that don’t match their DTD, but Apex will
                        accept a new DTD whenever we provide it, so KH suggested we just give them
                        the latest version. According to SR, there is only one difference between
                        the actual DTDs. LB: Should we give them a new ODD + schema, or just a DTD?
                        If we give them both, then the ODD should provide documentation to replace
                        theirs. KH: Their documentation is different and a bit more thorough and
                        precise than ours. LB: We should take their documentation and place it in
                        our ODD, if they’ll allow us to do so. KH will look more closely at this. </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    SIG Reports (JC)</head>
<p>JC already circulated a report to the Council list. Some SIGs have responded,
                        others not. This is available on the tei-council mailing list at <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016088.html">http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016088.html</ref>.
                        KH reports from <ref target="/Activities/SIG/Libraries/">the Libraries SIG</ref>: 
                        they are beginning a study of the library community
                        to see how/whether they are using TEI and how well TEI is meeting their needs.
                        The results will be presented at TEI and at another conference in the fall.
                        Question for Council: we agreed in Ann Arbor that KH should go through the Best
                        Practices document and create tickets based on it. He hasn’t started that
                        yet, but proposes asking members of the </p>
<p><title>TEI for Libraries</title> list to help. For
                        this, he’d like either a category or a group in SF for those tickets. LB:
                        what sort of tickets would arise out of this? It sounds more like a tutorial
                        for fine-tuning the TEI for libraries. JC: There’s already a category in SF
                        for TEI Guidelines Documentation. JC: Making a category is permanent is SF,
                        so we should probably avoid making new ones that would only be of temporary
                        value. KH withdrew the idea in the light of this. But if someone can come up
                        with a category that means “not ready for Council consideration yet”, then
                        that might be handy. LB suggests using a wiki to create the list of topics
                        and issues, and then create tickets from that. </p>
<p> JC mentioned ongoing board discussions about reforming the way SIGs worked
                        and that currently the SIG Rules <ref target="/Activities/SIG/rules.xml">http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/SIG/rules.xml</ref> say that “a single
                        ‘SIG Coordinator’ is appointed by the Council from among its members”. He
                        has suggested (and will suggest again to the board) that it should not be
                        limited to the Council Membership. </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Google Books (KH)</head>
<p> KH has obtained samples of Google TEI output and circulated them to Council,
                        but nobody has had a chance to look at them yet. KH will remind Council to
                        do this. </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Physical Bibliography (KH)</head>
<p> In Paris we thought it would be a good idea to revive the PB working group,
                        and there are complaints that TEI inadequately serves the PB community for
                        printed books. KH has found Annika Rockenberger who is willing to serve as
                        leader of the working group, and has asked her to formulate a plan that he
                        can bring to Council for approval. Hopefully this will be available for the
                        September F2F. </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                     ODD Meeting after DH2012 (JC)</head>
<p>A brief report has been sent to the Council list <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016074.html">http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/016074.html</ref>;
                        JC summarized its contents. LB noted that the report needs to be condensed
                        into some take-home messages. MH wondered Re: the Roma issue: was it mainly
                        the web interface or the back-end? JC noted that everyone there agreed that
                        there should be a second, independent implementation of Roma. But SR is
                        mainly concerned that we need an new web interface that handles more of the
                        ODD functionality. </p>
<p>
                        <label>Action:</label> JC will be producing a clearer, more summary, report
                        or the face2face meeting. </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                     XPointer scheme proposal (GB) </head>
<p>GB was unable to connect owing to telephonic difficulties. 
                        MH and LB discussed the XPointer scheme proposal written by Hugh Cayless for
                        the benefit of council. MH finds it hard to advocate for it since he
                        is worried about the scale and ambition of it, and not sure whether, in the end,
                        it would be useful or much used. It is suggested PB should see if this fits his use-cases.
                        MH suggests only looking at those pointer schemes which are actually in use
                        in the wild, but the proposers want to handle theoretical ones. Not enough
                        Council members had yet read the proposal which is at <ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JsMA-gOGrevyY-crzHGiC7eZ8XdV5H_wFTlUGzrf20w/edit">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JsMA-gOGrevyY-crzHGiC7eZ8XdV5H_wFTlUGzrf20w/edit</ref>.
                        More discussion is needed on council list, and feeding back of any
                        suggestions to the creators of the proposal in case they wish to modify it
                        before the next council FTF meeting.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                     Face2Face Meeting: arrangements (JC) </head>
<p>Reminder to put these things into diaries so no conflicts arise. JC will
                        provide lots more info for everyone nearer the time. LB: Where are the
                        meetings? JC: IT Services and Wolfson College. We can’t have it all in
                        either place because of conflicts. KH looks forward to visiting the fabled
                        OUCS-that-was. JC promises a tour with highlights like “This is where Lou’s
                        office used to be”. Everyone needing accommodation says they’ve already
                        booked it. </p>
</div>
</div>
<div><head>
                Replacement for Stuart Yeates or not? (JC) </head>
<p> JC thanks Stuart for all his hard work over the last couple of years. The
                    consensus on the Council list was that since SY’s term was up at the end of the
                    year, it’s not worth looking for a short-term replacement. KH would like to see
                    the Board clarify this in the bylaws, so that there would be a clear path
                    forward in this kind of situation in future. LB suggests that JC propose to the
                    Board that if only three months or less is left before an election, someone
                    leaving should not be replaced. JC will suggest to the Board that they clarify
                    this.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                TEI Lite (LB) </head>
<p>LB has done a lot of changes and updates to TEI Lite. He still needs to clarify
                    with SR and others regarding testing etc.; if it remains part of the build
                    process, it will need to be tested during building, but if it’s “archived” in
                    the sense of being moved to the Vault, this would be unnecessary. MH suggests it
                    should be formally removed from the release package after the next release, but
                    LB thinks this is a bad idea, and will not win us friends. KH points out that if
                    the @source attribute is added to the schemaSpec element, the build process
                    would always use a previous version of TEI to build it, and therefore it
                    wouldn’t need updating. JC reminded Council that it might still build
                    differently if we were to make changes in the stylesheets or the build process.
                    MH noted likewise that if the ODD specification and ODD processing changes, this
                    will break Lite. LB suggested an example of the sort of thing we want to stop
                    doing is this: we have just added into Lite some completely new features, such
                    as the use of @facs. We should not be doing that, but we should be continuing to
                    build it and make sure that it works. KH asked Could we add something into the
                    build process that pulls an archived version from the Vault and adds it into the
                    release package? JC thought that it shouldn’t be a problem to do this and doing
                    the same for the Oxygen framework. JC thinks it should still be made available
                    in the way it currently is, even if behind the scenes (via an Apache rewrite or
                    symlink, like the Guidelines as a whole) it comes from the Vault. LB noted that
                    apart from that, changes are good and the result is useful, so the
                    archiving/maintenance issue is the only remaining one. </p>
<p>Once this work on Lite is finished, a similar process will be applied to Tite.</p>
<p><label>Actions</label>: MH will summarize the options to the Council list, as a
                    way of kick-starting the discussion of archiving etc.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                 Reminder to finish off Ann Arbor Actions (JC)</head>
<p>Go to the wiki page of actions from Ann Arbor, and for anything that’s assigned
                    to you and not done, do it. Be told. Do as JC says, and not as he apparently
                    does. Let’s clear this list ahead of the face-to-face meeting if we can. </p>
<p> MH suggested that any items which are still outstanding which are not tickets
                    should be turned into tickets by their assignees, and assigned to themselves. LB
                    noted that re: multimedia, nobody has done anything on this yet, but in the
                    meantime, LR and some German people have got together on an ISO activity to
                    harmonize some existing standards, which they would like to standardize in the
                    form of an ODD file. They are looking at the existing standards for
                    transcription of speech and video. There is an article in jTEI by Thomas Schmidt
                    which addresses this issue very well (<ref target="http://jtei.revues.org/142">http://jtei.revues.org/142</ref>). 
                    If that workgroup does what it proposes,
                    then we will have one answer to this ticket. LR has asked if someone from
                    Council could attend their meetings, and LB is willing to attend as
                    representative. Everyone agrees this would be a good idea. </p>
<p>JC notes that we have done very well in keeping expenses down, and if we can
                    continue to do that, we might be able to fund a code bounty potentially for a
                    rewrite of the Roma interface. JC thanks Lou for being a good bloke and
                    attending the workgroup meeting in November</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                 New Business Arising</head>
<p> None was raised by Council. JC thanked everyone for attending.</p>
</div>
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>