<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2012-02"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2012-02" when="2012-02-28">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>28 February 2012</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM049</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21905</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
    <body>

      <head>TEI Technical Council Meeting</head>
      <milestone unit="unknown" rend="rule"/>






      <div>
        <p>The TEI Technical Council held a teleconference on Tuesday 29 February from 18h00 to
          19h00 UTC.</p>
        <p><label>Participants:</label> Gabriel Bodard (GB); Brett Barney (BB); Lou Burnard (LB:
          minutes), James Cummings (JC: chair); Kevin Hawkins (KH); Martin Holmes (MH); Sebastian
          Rahtz (SR); Paul Schaffner (PS); Rebecca Welzenbach (RW); Stuart Yeates (SY); .</p>
        <p>Apologies: Piotr Banski. </p>
        <p>Agenda: <ref target="http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Council#Teleconference_-_Tuesday_28_February_2012_at_18:00_GMT"/></p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <list>
          <label>Brief Reports previously circulated</label>
          <item>
            <list>
              <item> KH reported that he and MH were still working on the ideas about bibliographic
                citation summarized in their <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Ad-hoc_committee_on_encoding_of_bibliographic_citations">article on the wiki </ref></item>
              <item>KH’s <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/015174.html">pre-meeting report </ref> also addresses the current state of TEI Tite. He
                believed that the Tite schema as documented at <ref target="http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-exemplars/html/tei_tite.doc.html"/> was now consistent with the Apex DTD, but agreed to check. SR asked whether Tite
                was defined with reference to a specific version of P5 and if so which. It appears
                not. This means that there may be unexpected changes when the schema is regenerated
                against a different version of P5. The schema is defined by inclusion so this will
                only affect unspecified value or attribute lists however. A question was raised
                about the ownership of the Apex DTD which Apex are thought to believe to be their
                property. <hi>KH to investigate and report back at next meeting</hi>. </item>
              <item>MH’s <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/015185.html">previously circulated report</ref> discusses the blacklisting of URLs derived
                from some TEI identifiers such as #MSAD. After reflection, Council agreed with his
                recommendation that all existing identifers should be given a unique prefix such as
                “TEI_” ; it was also agreed that this could be done at the next available release.
                since it would not involve any schema change. <hi>SR and MH to confer on
                  implementation before next P5 release.</hi></item>
              <item>KH summarised what was known about the current state of work within Google on
                producing a TEI conformant version of some large number of scanned Google Books. The
                algorithms and code concerned were proprietary to Google, but the outputs would be
                publicly available. No correction of OCR errors in the input text was envisaged. JC
                reported that he and SR had also been in discussion with Google about making
                available “good” TEI versions of texts from the Oxford Text Archive. KH reiterated
                that this project constituted “big news” for the TEI and we should be ready to
                maximize publicity arising from it. KH was asked to try to find out more about the
                project as soon as possible, e.g. how many titles were envisaged, and of what
                quality; were any features for collation or correction of reported errors envisaged?
                etc </item>
              <item>GB spoke to the agenda item concerning the extended pointers workgroup . MH
                opined that the uses originally proposed for XPointer extensions within the TEI were
                of little practical use for most TEI users; LB questioned this, citing eg Piotr’s
                use of them in support of stand-off linguistic markup. Syd Bauman had suggested the
                TEI might improve the situation by funding development of a specialized XInclude
                processor; others disagreed. MH reported that little was happening on the group’s
                discussion list; it was agreed that the <hi>Chair should ask the group to propose a
                  date</hi> by when they might have some recommendations for Council’s
                consideration. See further <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/015199.html">GB’s brief post-meeting report</ref>. </item>
              <item><ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/015185.html">MH’s report</ref> summarizes ongoing work in connexion with several SF tickets
                related to attribute datatypes. He has now checked the proposed <gi>datatype</gi> of
                each P5 attribute against its supposed <gi>dataDesc</gi>, and believes they are now
                all consistent, with the sole exception of the <att>form</att> attribute on
                  <gi>quotation</gi> which has no <gi>datatype</gi> at all. However since this
                attribute has been marked as deprecated for several releases, it should probably be
                removed at the next one. </item>
              <item><ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/015174.html">KH’s report</ref> touches also on the proposal to revive the Physical
                Bibliography Workgroup for which a chair had to be found. Council discussed the
                names proposed, and encouraged KH to pursue these possibilities, and report back as
                soon as possible.</item>
              <item>In <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/015185.html">his pre-meeting report</ref> MH reported that recent work on documenting the <ref target="/Activities/Council/Working/tcw22.xml">TEI release process</ref> in better
                detail appeared to be as complete as was feasible for the moment. RW promptly
                reported a typo in the document; this has now been fixed. </item>
              <item> Following acceptance of the proposed “Future of TEI ODD” panel for the DH2012
                conference, JC asked <hi>Council members to suggest other possible participants</hi>
                for a workshop on the Saturday and Sunday following DH2012 on the Future of TEI ODD
                as soon as possible, so that the work of preparing the workshop (which he is
                coordinating) might begin.</item>
            </list>
          </item>
          <label>Other business on the agenda</label>
          <item>For lack of time, items 2 (discussion of <ref target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2012/015190.html">MH’s
              long posting</ref> concerning use of <att>ref</att> and <att>key</att>) and 3 (issues
            raised by the TEI in Libraries Best Practice document) were both deferred to the next
            meeting. </item>
          <label>April face to face meeting</label>
          <item>The remainder of the meeting was devoted to practical arrangements for the April
            face to face meeting in Ann Arbor. RW reported that rooms had been now been reserved in
            the Bell Inn for all Council members. JC asked for <hi>input from Council in updating
              and amplifying the draft agenda topics for the meeting in the Wiki</hi>. LB undertook
            to perform the traditional triage of outstanding sourceforge issues by the third week of
            March; MH undertook to nag him if this was not done by that date. </item>
        </list>
        <p>Meeting concluded at 19h10, UTC.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
  </text></TEI>