<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2014-08"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2014-08" when="2014-08-01">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>1 August 2014</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM061</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21917</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		<!-- <div class="teiheader"><filedesc><titlestmt><title><date when="2014-08-01">1 August
                    2014</date></title><author>TEI Technical Council</author><respstmt><resp>Initial Encoding</resp><name>James Cummings</name></respstmt></titlestmt><editionstmt><edition><date when="2014-08-01">1 August 2014</date></edition></editionstmt><publicationstmt>
<p>Freely available under a CC+By licence</p>
</publicationstmt><sourcedesc><p>Converted from a Google Doc that all Council Members edited during the
                    meeting.</p>
<p>            </sourcedesc></filedesc></div> -->
<p>TEI Council Teleconference Draft Minutes 2014-08-01</p>
<p><hi style="bold">Present: </hi> James Cummings (JC – Chair), Hugh Cayless (HC), Lou
                Burnard (LB), Martin Holmes (MH), Paul Schaffner (PFS), Stefanie Gehrke (SG), Syd
                Bauman (SB)</p>
<p><hi style="bold">Apologies: </hi> Fabio Ciotti (FC), Peter Stadler (PWS), Sebastian
                Rahtz (SR), Elli Mylonas (EM)</p>
<div>
<list style="ul">
<item>Draft Agenda at: <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Council_agenda_2014-08">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Council_agenda_2014-08</ref></item>
<item> Amber FR: <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberFR">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberFR</ref></item>
<item>Amber Bugs: <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberBugs">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberBugs</ref></item>
<item>Green FR: <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenFR">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenFR</ref></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                Actions Arising</head>
<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">Action on SB to confirm release date.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on everyone to look at their tickets and prioritize
                            those which are release-blocking, and those which are desiderata.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on SR to report again on TEI Simple after the Oxford
                            meeting.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on HC to put up a Doodle poll for attendance, arrival
                            and departure to assist in booking. Action on HC to confirm who will pay
                            initially (Duke or attendees), and then reclaim the cost from the TEI.
                        </hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on JC to email Martin Mueller and all involved in
                            organizing the last one to see if they have suggestions on how/whether
                            to organize this.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on MH to raise a bug on the Stylesheets project about
                            localising @rend.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                Next Release (SB/EM); release cut-off-date</head>
<p>Tentative schedule, pending approval (mostly by Elli):</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>refrigeration (i.e., code lock-down) starts Sat 2014-09-06: no code
                        commits on that day through thaw</item>
<item>freeze (i.e., prose lock-down) starts Sat 2014-09-13: only typo fixes on
                        that day through thaw</item>
<item>release day Tue 2014-09-16</item>
</list>
<p><hi style="bold">Action on SB to confirm this.</hi><lb/><hi style="bold">Action on everyone to look at their tickets and prioritize those
                        which are release-blocking, and those which are desiderata.</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                TEI Simple (SR)</head>
<p>JC: Funded by Mellon. Week-long meeting planned in Oxford in September with some
                    key participants (week of the 20th). This will start looking at the processing
                    model proposal. <hi style="bold">Action on SR to report again after this
                        meeting.</hi></p>
<p>Reminder to feed back thoughts on CorrespDesc (PWS)<lb/>Some feedback has been
                    submitted, keep it up! Discussion on TEI-CORRESP-SIG list suggests that the spec
                    is still in flux. List archive: <ref target="https://listserv.brown.edu/?A0=TEI-CORRESP-SIG"><hi style="underline color(1155cc)">https://listserv.brown.edu/?A0=TEI-CORRESP-SIG</hi></ref>. LB: Is
                    anyone looking at what CMC SIG is doing? JC looked at this before Rome meeting.
                    LB believes their proposals are getting more mature, and there is substantial
                    overlap. JC: We suggested to PWS that he contact them; we should make sure that
                    happens. LB: They are dealing with large corpora including email, collaborative
                    products (wikipedia), and online chats. JC: Shall we propose that the TEI Board
                    provide funds to send PWS to their meeting [where? when?]. Action on JC to ask
                    PWS if he can attend, and if so, ask Board for funding.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                Autumn Face2Face (HC)</head>
<p>Confirmed: Mon 2014-11-17 through Wed 2014-11-19.</p>
<p>HC needs to know a general estimate of numbers, and will reserve a block of rooms
                    at one of the local hotels or conference centers. <hi style="bold">Action on HC
                        to put up a Doodle poll for attendance, arrival and departure to assist in
                        booking. Action on HC to confirm who will pay initially (Duke or attendees),
                        and then reclaim the cost from the TEI. </hi>There are no plans as yet for
                    Council members to participate in public presentations around the meeting, but
                    if they’re going to happen, dates will need to be confirmed soon.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                List Types (MH/SR)</head>
<p>MH values of @rend are suggested in prose, not <gi>valList</gi> because of tech
                    problem. All uses have been changed. Stylesheets updated. Prose updated in CO to
                    suggest use of @rend or @style (@rend rather than @rendition because it is a
                    more straightforward conversion, of documents or of practice, from @type). Sole
                    remaining recommended value for @type is ‘gloss.’ SB wants to clarify that we
                    aren’t specifically recommending @rend but any of @rend/@rendition/@style</p>
<p>MH eventually to add a schematron to warn that use of our formerly recommended
                    values of @type is bad practice.</p>
<p>PFS and SB ask about different @type of list and what other values this might
                    have? JC: ‘Shopping’, ‘Laundry’; MH: These are really just arbitrary values; it
                    seems strange to include them in a suggested value list. @type=”gloss” is a
                    special case because a large part of the chapter is devoted to elaborating its
                    usage.</p>
<p>[Discussion of various types of list and analogies with other elements]</p>
<p>Action on SB: Look at modified chapter and feed back any suggested changes to
                    chapter.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                HackAThon at TEI Conf?</head>
<p>HackAThon at DH was successful; however, we might get more useful outcomes from
                    holding one at the TEI conference. Should we do this, or is there not enough
                    time to prepare? LB is unenthusiastic; if the objective is PR, we don’t need
                    that at the TEI conference. SB: If it’s potentially useful, though, it could be
                    held at the conference as an experiment. We could give it a try. <hi style="bold">Action on JC to email Martin Mueller and all involved in organizing the
                        last one to see if they have suggestions on how/whether to organize
                        this.</hi> HC points out that the Chicago Colloquium is starting immediately
                    afterwards; SB points out this may prevent people from attending both
                    hack-a-thon and Colloquium.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                Reminder of tickets, actions, etc.</head>
<p>Amber FR: <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberFR">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberFR</ref></p>
<p>Amber Bugs: <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberBugs">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberBugs</ref></p>
<p>Green FR: <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenFR">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenFR</ref></p>
<p>Actions from last meeting: <ref target="/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm60.xml#actions">http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm60.xml#actions</ref></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                AOB?</head>
<p>LB: Can I carry out ticket <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/680/">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/680/</ref> , which is a
                    corrigible error? Council agreed.</p>
<p>SB: gap/supplied/surplus/unclear have locally defined @reason and SB wants to
                    factor them into a class; but deleting local deletes version he has added in
                    class. LB/SB discuss options. </p>
<p>MH: Problem with localising @rend in guidelines, but should be able to do things
                    like this in the source. LB: Problem is in generation of DTDs (LB explains DTD
                    generation problem). <hi style="bold">Action on MH to raise a bug on the
                        Stylesheets project.</hi></p>
<p>JC requests a volunteer (preferably someone not standing for election this year)
                    to sit on the committee to manage elections for Council and Board. He will email
                    continuing members of Council to ask again, since some are absent.</p>
<p>JC thanks everyone for attending and taking minutes.</p>
</div>
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>