<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2014-06"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2014-06" when="2014-06-30">TEI Technical Council ftf meeting
     : <placeName>Oxford</placeName>, <date>30 June-2 July 2014</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM060</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21916</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		
	 <!-- <p><tei xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" id="tcm60"></p>
	  <div class="teiheader"><filedesc><titlestmt><title><date from="2014-06-30" to="2014-07-02">30
                        June to 2 July 2014</date></title><author>TEI Technical Council</author><respstmt><resp>Initial Encoding</resp><name>James Cummings</name></respstmt></titlestmt><editionstmt><edition><date when="2014-07-25">25 July 2014</date></edition></editionstmt><publicationstmt>
<p>Freely available under a CC+By licence</p>
</publicationstmt><sourcedesc><p>Converted from a Google Doc that all Council Members edited during the
                    meeting.</p>
<p>            </sourcedesc></filedesc></div> -->
<p><hi style="bold">Present:</hi> James Cummings (JC – Chair), Syd Bauman (SB), Hugh
                Cayless (HC), Elli Mylonas (EM), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Stefanie Gehrke (SG), Martin
                Holmes (MH), Paul Schaffner (PFS), Peter Stadler (PWS), Lou Burnard (LB), Fabio
                Ciotti (FC).</p>
<div>
<p>Amber FR: <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberFR">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberFR</ref></p>
<p>Amber Bugs: <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberBugs">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberBugs</ref></p>
<p>Green FR: <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenFR">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenFR</ref></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                Actions Arising</head>
<p>Please note that this list of actions only includes actions arising from discussions outside of tickets, 
actions for individual tickets should be recorded on the tickets themselves.</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>
<p>Action on SR and JC: Report back to Council on progress of
                            TEI Simple.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: All of Council: read the correspDesc proposal (<ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/SIG:Correspondence/task-force-correspDesc">wiki page</ref>, <ref target="https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc">github</ref>) by Aug. 1 and
                            send comments to Council list, Discussion ensues on Council list for 1
                            month, PWS will synthesize back to the corresp group after that.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: HC to report back on preparations for face-to-face
                            in next few weeks.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: on all Council: Read <ref target="http://hal.inria.fr/hal-00950862">http://hal.inria.fr/hal-00950862</ref><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">http://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/</ref> add
                            comments to ticket before face2face.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: on all Council: Read ISO Speech transcription
                            proposal (<ref target="http://bit.ly/1jyZC37">http://bit.ly/1jyZC37</ref>) before next F2F meeting.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: MH/LB/HC to write a position paper on global
                        applicability of <att>resp</att> (<ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/443/">FR443</ref>) 
                        before next F2F meeting.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: LB/HC/SR: write brief report before next f2f on 
                        <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/504/">FR504</ref> 
                        examining options including 1) using <gi>relation</gi>; 2) embedding
                            &lt;rdf:RDF&gt;; 3) co-opting <gi>arc</gi>; 4) using another existing
                            mechanism; 5) creating a new mechanism altogether.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: on HC/JC/MH (and other interested parties): discuss
                        appPart on ticket <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/492/">FR492</ref>.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: on HC to encourage MS SIG to comment on this
                        (<ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/492/">FR492</ref>) 
                        and other relevant tickets.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: on SB to nail down date of release in next couple
                            weeks.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: on JC: Ask TEI Board: Should we continue to support
                            so many languages? Should we prioritize translation into other <soCalled>less
                            obvious</soCalled> languages eg Arabic, Hindi, Hebrew? How can the Board best
                            support the community of translators? </p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: on MH/JC/SB/HC: Discuss among each other and each
                            create a 20 minute presentation for the next F2F on some aspects of
                            stylesheets or other arcane TEI processing that may be difficult for
                            others to understand.</p>
</item>
<item>
<p>Action: on all Council to read the <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/List_types_and_rendering">wiki page</ref> on <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/460/">FR460</ref>	(list/@type feedback to MH &amp; SB within a week.</p>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                Monday</head>
<div><head>
                    TEI Simple (SR)</head>
<p>Summary – Our work on TEI Simple:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>A TEI subset will be created on the model of TEI Lite and Tite focussed on early
                            modern books. </item>
<item>It will include a new processing model that will be documented in the
                            ODD. </item>
<item>All elements will be mapped to CIDOC-CRM and FRBR-OO. </item>
<item>It will also include a mechanism for encoding a machine readable distinction 
                            between what’s (not) encoded and
                            what is actually (not) present in a document. </item>
</list>
<p>Council asked to agree that changes be made to ODD language made to handle document
                        processing models and also to commit to look after the ODD file, as TEI
                        evolves. </p>
<p>Main new part for the guidelines infrastructure is notation for processing
                        rules. There will also be a set of rules for this customization. Discussion
                        focusses on the need to develop a new meta-language to express processing.
                        Is it necessary, and what support would it require? (SR) This language is
                        likely to be more similar to the declarative nature of schematron than to XSLT.
                        Precisely how it will work and be expressed is not yet determined as that is
                        part of the project, but TEI Council members are involved in it and will
                        report back to Council.</p>
<p>Discussion about what Council is agreeing to maintain, especially in the area
                        of the processing model. JC: Council will be discussing and approving as it
                        is being developed. SR: Council approval is a mark of success for the
                        project.. FC: Comment that this project is implementing a particular
                        representation of the “book” — especially a western european anglo-centric
                        viewpoint. Assuming it will also be widely used, a de facto standard, after
                        it is released. Suggests some more input on whether it will handle other
                        forms of book. Also, was a formal ontology taken into account in formulating
                        the book model? JC: I think that is merely reflected in the nature of the
                        TEI as a whole. FC: And might the project produce a standard set of XQuery
                        functions that could then be customized to aid in discovery/search. JC: I
                        think that is out of scope for this project but would enable people to do so
                        more easily.</p>
<p>Some reactions: HC: it would be nice if the processing model could be
                        extensible, so used by other customizations (Epidoc, e.g). Currently the
                        Epidoc processing model is expressed in the stylesheets. EM: Simple is one
                        of many customizations for different disciplinary or special interest
                        groups. SR: XQuery – good idea, not in scope and hope someone will do this.
                        PFS: This is based on a particular corpus of English early modern books that
                        already exists. Could be expanded to handle other texts. JC: Simple can form the
                        basis for further customization; as part of the DiXiT project one of the
                        first chained ODD customisations to Simple will be to handle scholarly
                        digital editions (e.g. include critapp stuff). MH: most interesting part of
                        this for TEI is the processing model because it opens the possibility of
                        creating a whole project from the ODD. SB: will it be able to create
                        multiple outputs? JC: it would be a failure, in my opinion, if it didn’t. –
                        but project still has to work this out and propose to Council. After
                        discussion, Council unanimously approves.</p>
<p>Council unanimously agrees to maintain and support the TEI Simple
                        output as part of the TEI infrastructure.</p>
<p>Action on SR and JC: Report back to Council on progress of TEI
                        Simple.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Pure ODD (LB)</head>
<p>Summary: </p>
<p>What is Pure ODD? An attempt to redefine TEI content models using only TEI,
                        without embedding pieces of Relax NG, Schematron and other languages. First
                        presented at DH 2012. SR, LB worked on initial implementation. Needed to
                        balance the constant tension between developing a functional (effective and
                        efficient) way of specifying structure and structural constraints, and
                        developing a general-purpose language wholly independent of current
                        processing languages. </p>
<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">Q:</hi> Does it makes sense to have <att>allowText</att> on
                            sub elements of <gi>content</gi>? <hi style="bold">A:</hi> LB says no.
                            <att>allowText</att> indicates that text fragments can appear within that element
                            that bears it. In XML Schema, because of the non-deterministic parsing
                            model it assumes, there are many restrictions on where text fragments
                            can appear. The use of XML restricts this feature. <hi style="bold">Discussion:</hi> if we are trying to enable the future possibility
                            of getting away from XML as the only language, then this might not be a
                            restriction. SR: actually, we should either forbid it or define what
                            happens when a non-deterministic model occurs. LB: one way to handle it
                            is to only allow <att>allowText</att> on either the sub-element or on
                            <gi>content</gi> but not on both. <att>allowText</att> and PCData content models
                            don’t mix.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Q:</hi> What does a set of <gi>elementRef</gi> as direct children of
                            <gi>content</gi> mean? <hi style="bold">A:</hi> It can have one of each child,
                            otherwise have to use sequence or alternation. <hi style="bold">Discussion:</hi> consensus seems to be appearing that having a
                            mixed content element called <gi>mixedContent</gi> is appealing to
                            everyone as well as one called <gi>textNode</gi>. <gi>mixedContent</gi>
                            would specialcase traditional non-deterministic mixed content model of
                            (pcdata|x|y)*.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Q:</hi> What does the same thing mean with <att>allowText</att>? <hi style="bold">A:</hi>
                            further investigation shows that actually RNG and WSD do permit
                            non-deterministic content models, so we do want to allow <att>allowText</att> on
                            <gi>sequence</gi> and <gi>alternate</gi>. </item>
<item><hi style="bold">Q: </hi> When and how should we convert Guidelines to Pure
                            ODD? <hi style="bold">A:</hi> SB – language decided upon, testing should
                            happen first. Target release: Summer 2015, tentative. SR: how to express
                            Pure ODD in Guidelines doc. JC: As an alternative next to RelaxNG
                            versions.</item>
</list>
<p>SR: Pure ODD is mostly implemented, except for some of the items discussed
                        above. </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    TEI DH2014 HackAThon (EM)</head>
<p>EM summarised the TEI HackAThon preparations, participants, and proposed
                        projects. Would-be participants include both non-technical TEI users and
                        programmers; projects range from quite narrow and specific projects to ideas
                        of broader interest. Projects are listed on the wiki (<ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/DH2014Hackathon-Projects">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/DH2014Hackathon-Projects</ref>). Council
                        members are welcome to visit the hackathon page on the wiki and comment
                        there.</p>
<p>EM reminds us that the hack-a-thon results are not directly related to the
                        prize for TEI development being offered by the Board. SG suggests a link to
                        the projects page from the main page; EM agrees and will implement. EM:
                        DONE.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    TEI Correspondence Module (PWS)</head>
<p>The proposal is available via Github, see <ref target="https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc/blob/master/proposal.xml">https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc/blob/master/proposal.xml</ref>.</p>
<p>In addition to developing a customization for correspondence, the group is
                        also developing an interchange format, by including a linked data
                        representation in the <gi>correspDesc</gi> element – which is a wrapper for a short
                        version of the salient features of a piece of correspondence. There is a
                        sample implementation that allows cross repository searching. </p>
<p>Discussion around issue of the formulation of <gi>correspDesc</gi> as both a
                        descriptive element that allows textual description and as a highly
                        structured element that enables the interchange format and the
                        sub-customization that generates the interchange format. </p>
<p>SB suggests that Council be given a date by which to comment more thoroughly
                        on the proposal (<ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/SIG:Correspondence/task-force-correspDesc">wiki page</ref>, <ref target="https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc">github</ref>). PWS would like comments of any kind. </p>
<p>Action: All of Council: read this proposal by Aug. 1 and send
                        comments to Council list, Discussion ensues on Council list for 1 month, PWS
                        will synthesize back to the corresp group after that.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Amber BUGS</head>
<table>
<row>
<cell><hi style="bold">Ticket Number</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold"> Description</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Notes/Resolution</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/675/">675</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/675/">org should
                                    allow model.global</ref></cell>
<cell>Group A. Obviously correct. Do.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/674/">674</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/674/">Example for
                                    sequence element does not contain sequence element</ref></cell>
<cell>Group A. Already done. Close</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/673/">673</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/673/">Wrong
                                    datatype for sequence/​<att>preserveOrder</att></ref></cell>
<cell>Group A. Already done. Close</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/671/">671</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/671/">Schematron
                                    mis-tests whitespace for separator
                                (<att>targert</att>,<att>from</att>,<att>to</att>)</ref></cell>
<cell>Group B make it green, make it happen</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/670/">670</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/670/">Attribute
                                    definitions are slightly inconsistent</ref></cell>
<cell>Group B make it green, James should have already done it (JC:
                                Agreed.)</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/667/">667</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/667/">Consistent
                                    case in Guidelines headings</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B we agree that heading should be consistent. Recommend a
                                    Council Vote </p>
<p>TEI Journal recommends title case for
                                    bibliographic citation and seems to use title case for section
                                    headings. We recommend going along with TEI journal. Also
                                    probably fewer to fix. </p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/661/">661</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/661/">outdated
                                    schematron constraint ‘msId_minimal’?!</ref></cell>
<cell>Group C — Not decided <lb/>Note — this is related to the FR on
                                msPart<lb/>Undecided — Council close this one and merge with the FR
                                Council reopens discussion with the FR further down.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/658/">658</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/658/"><gi>listRelation</gi> can’t occur in
                                <gi>listRelation</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>Group C — agreed</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/655/">655</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/655/">examples of
                                    <gi>org</gi>, <gi>person</gi>, and <gi>place</gi> should have
                                    <att>xml</att>:id</ref></cell>
<cell>Group C — agreed</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/654/">654</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/654/">bad date
                                    attrs in <gi>education</gi> example</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group A. stet. It’s a possible example.</p>
<p>Council decides SB
                                    will add an additional example.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/647/">647</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/647/">data.enumerated != valItem/​<att>ident</att></ref></cell>
<cell>Group A. try changing to data.name and seeing what breaks. ACTION
                                ON SR: test</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/636/">636</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/636/">extraction of
                                    Schematron code from within <gi>classSpec</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>Group A. should be raised as a Github issue on Stylesheets. not a
                                TEI bug. ACTION ON SR: move issue. Done.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/634/">634</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/634/">“TEI-conformable” is meaningless</ref></cell>
<cell>Group B recommend we drop it and replace with nothing. Needs
                                significant editing. Council agrees.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/633/">633</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/633/"><att>source</att> in
                                    att.editLike is overly constrained</ref></cell>
<cell>Group B Make it green and implement (change comment only to
                                recommend other sources). Comment might indicate that <gi>witness</gi> and
                                <gi>msDesc</gi> are appropriate for textual apparatus, and the other targets
                                are also options. Council agrees. </cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/632/">632</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/632/">sloppy
                                    language in specs for att.datable.w3c and
                                att.datable.iso</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B green and implement. SB? </p>
<p>Council agrees. Action
                                    on SB to go through chapter/specs and normalize
                                references.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/630/">630</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/630/">use of
                                    <gi>listRef</gi> in specs</ref></cell>
<cell>Group C — Go Green. LB to do. (Council agrees)</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/629/">629</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/629/">dollar sign
                                    escaping in canonical references</ref></cell>
<cell>Group C — Recommend to Council $$; Council agrees.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/627/">627</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/627/">Encoding
                                    example from Drama chapter uses <att>corresp</att> instead of
                                <att>synch</att></ref></cell>
<cell>Group C — Example needs to be updated to use <gi>spGrp</gi>; Council
                                agrees.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/626/">626</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/626/">Top bar menus
                                    don’t work in Chrome from Guidelines TOC page</ref></cell>
<cell>Group A. Probably resolved by using new UDM Javascript last week.
                                Council Agrees. SR to test. Done. Ticket closed.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/621/">621</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/621/"><att>expand</att>
                                    example in att.lexicographic is incorrect.</ref></cell>
<cell>Group A. True. but we don’t know what a good example would be. Do
                                we even still need <att>expand</att>? It looks like the dictionaries module
                                violates the “no content in attributes” principle all over the
                                place. Ripe for a re-write? PFS to implement suggestions he documented
                                on ticket.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/620/">620</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/620/">which part of
                                    TEI Guidelines takes precedence</ref></cell>
<cell>Group A. Close the ticket politely. Council Agrees.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/616/">616</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/616/"><gi>cit</gi>
                                    and <gi>quote</gi> not allowed within
                                <gi>summary</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>change to macro.specialPara; Council
                                Agrees.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/610/">610</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/610/">“lem” used in
                                    a confusing way in CriticalApparatus.xml</ref></cell>
<cell>Group B Amber… HC to explore and report back</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/581/">581</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/581/">`<gi>attRef</gi>` needs better documentation</ref></cell>
<cell>Group B [not fully discussed]</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/563/">563</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/563/">inconsistent
                                    encoding of citations to sources of examples</ref></cell>
<cell>Group C; Council agrees, PFS/EM to complete ticket.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/548/">548</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/548/">use of modal
                                    verbs in Guidelines</ref></cell>
<cell>Group C [not fully discussed]</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/468/">468</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/468/">Order of
                                    elements in publicationStmt</ref></cell>
<cell>Group C; SB to complete ticket.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/460/">460</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/460/">list/​<att>type</att>=”unordered” is not recommended, but used
                                    often</ref></cell>
<cell>Council decides this is release blocking. MH and SB to carry it
                                out. All of Council to read the wiki page and feedback to M &amp; S
                                within a week.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/234/">234</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/234/">use of <att>n</att> on
                                    divs</ref></cell>
<cell>closed-fixed</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/231/">231</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/231/">how to handle
                                    forme work</ref></cell>
<cell>closed</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/228/">228</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/228/">when and
                                    where to capture line breaks</ref></cell>
<cell>open-postponed.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/216/">216</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/216/">half title
                                    pages in TEI Tite</ref></cell>
<cell>open-postponed</cell>
</row>
</table>
</div></div>
<div><head>
                Tuesday </head>
<div><head>
                    Autumn Face-to-Face meeting (HC)</head>
<p>Currently scheduled for Nov 5-7 (Wed-Fri). Moved to 17-19 November. TEI MM
                        October 22-24.</p>
<p>East Coasters will try to arrange some invited talks.</p>
<p>Action: HC to report back on preparations for face-to-face in
                        next few weeks</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Text directionality additions: final reading and approval (MH)</head>
<p>Most of the Council has read the latest version of the text directionality
                        document. MH asks if there are no comments/objections, otherwise it will be
                        in the next release. </p>
<p>Council accepts the text directionality section of the guidelines. A big
                        thank you to MH and LB, who got a lot of input from the text directionality
                        working group: Marcus Bingenheimer, Stella Dee and Deborah Anderson, as well
                        as Richard Ishida from the W3C.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Update on TBX ODD (LB)</head>
<p>Terminological Databases. <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">http://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/</ref> Originally the
                        Guidelines were intended to have a section on semasiological and one on
                        onomasiological dictionaries. This wasn’t quite done, and the rump was
                        therefore removed in P5. The TBX ODD (see trunk/Incubator/TBX/TEI-TBX.odd)
                        is Laurent Romary’s initiative towards replacing the terminological
                        component, being developed with a terminological working group. It’s ongoing
                        work, the group meets regularly and the ODD keeps developing. When complete,
                        it should be in good shape and ready for inclusion. Question is where it
                        belongs in the Guidelines – section of dictionary chapter? new chapter?
                        module? </p>
<p>Here’s a background article <ref target="http://hal.inria.fr/hal-00950862">http://hal.inria.fr/hal-00950862</ref>.</p>
<p>Laurent welcomes comments or feedback, best to put it into the ticket.
                        Council tasked with reading this before the next F2F. MH says it should be
                        discussed in relation to Taxonomy and Feature Structures. </p>
<p>Action: on all Council: Read <ref target="http://hal.inria.fr/hal-00950862">http://hal.inria.fr/hal-00950862</ref><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">http://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/</ref> add comments
                        to ticket before face2face</p>
</div>
<div>
                    <head>Update on ISO Speech transcription proposal (<ref target="http://bit.ly/1jyZC37">http://bit.ly/1jyZC37</ref>) (LB)</head>
<p>WG headed up by Thomas Schmidt. Objective is to define an ODD for applying
                        the script transcription model to being an interchange format between the
                        commonly used speech transcription systems (done in software). Transcription
                        is hard, tends to be done using specialized tools which tend to differ in
                        theoretical premises (as to what exactly should be captured), etc. The field
                        therefore tends to fall into isolated camps based on proprietary tools and
                        the standards they employ.</p>
<p>Schmidt published article in TEI journal describing how competing systems of
                        speech transcription have a lot of overlap, and identifying commonalities
                        between the various transcription systems and showing how TEI, slightly
                        modified, can provide an interchange format.</p>
<p>Need a few new features/extensions – for example to indicate some event or
                        change in the flow of speech, or a container for a speech chunk and its
                        annotation. </p>
<p>Council urged to read the document and provide feedback to the group or to LB
                        who works with the group. MH: try to get buy-in from SIL. LB will do so,
                        with MH’s help. PWS: is there overlap with the standoff group? Yes, in terms
                        of work/interests, not people. JC: time estimate for when this will be a
                        concrete proposal for Council to consider? LB: it’s sufficiently complete to
                        start absorbing. We could discuss it at the next F2F, get Thomas to present
                        it. In scale, amounts to a large-scale feature request: a customization
                        destined to be folded into P5 in its entirety. As the product of an ISO
                        group, it is well on its way to becoming an official ISO standard and
                        document, which would make it, like the TEI feature structures chapter, effectively
                        part of a joint ISO-TEI standard, and therefore more difficult to change,
                        except in tandem with ISO.</p>
<p>Action: on all Council: Read ISO Speech transcription proposal
                            (<ref target="http://bit.ly/1jyZC37">http://bit.ly/1jyZC37</ref>) before
                        next F2F meeting</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Global Applicability of att.responsibility (MH)</head>
<p>related tickets:</p>
<p><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/443/">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/443/</ref></p>
<p><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/490/">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/490/</ref></p>
<p><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/509/">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/509/</ref></p>
<p>MH argues that almost all elements occasionally need a <att>resp</att>, which would be
                        available if it were in att.global. There has been a ticket about this for
                        several years now, and the case gets stronger each time it comes up on
                        TEI-L. One reason against is that that there is too much random stuff in
                        att.global, so it shouldn’t be added. JC wants to discourage Council from
                        adding things to att.global in order to keep the guidelines stable and not
                        put anything into global which isn’t truly needed there. (If he had his way
                        we’d be removing some of the things from att.global.) This was discussed in
                        the Nov. 2013 Council meeting, and voted down because <att>resp</att> can mean
                        different things when used with different elements, so it would not be
                        clearly defined. JC: same discussion as with <att>type</att>… under what situations
                        would we add it (or anything else) to att.global. Not everyone agrees with
                        that. </p>
<p><att>resp</att> is used to document the responsibility for the markup </p>
<p><att>resp</att> is used to document the responsibility for the content</p>
<p><att>resp</att> is used to document the responsibility for both markup and content</p>
<p><att>resp</att> is used for tracking responsibility inside an institution</p>
<p>MH would like <att>resp</att> to apply globally so that it can be the basis of a system
                        for expressing credit in TEI/encoding projects. LB agrees that it’s useful
                        in that particular case, but that it’s not a strong enough case to add <att>resp</att>
                        to att.global. SR: att.global contains attributes that are generally
                        applicable, but not necessarily used by everyone at all times. </p>
<p>The confusion that is already present in the definition of <att>resp</att> could be
                        clarified in the Guidelines, which would go a long way to explaining how it
                        could be used and when it isn’t powerful enough to handle some cases.
                        Suggestion is also that it not be in basic att.global, but in a module, so
                        users who only want the most basic TEI wouldn’t see it. </p>
<p>LB: Motion: need to think through where <att>resp</att> is made available. as well as
                        its relationship with <att>source</att> and <att>cert</att>. </p>
<p>MH: suggests forming a workgroup to look at all 3 attributes, think through
                        how they apply in different circumstances, not break backwards
                        compatibility, and how they might be more clearly defined (see also FR <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/465">http://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/465</ref>). Some discussion 
                        of using <att>resp</att> to point to <gi>respStmt</gi> elements, as a way of 
                        avoiding the ambiguity with regard to what it means. MH, LB, HC
                        come up with a position paper, Council can then decide who will be on the
                        subgroup to write up a recommendation.</p>
<p>Action: MH/LB/HC to write a position paper on global
                        applicability of <att>resp</att> before next F2F meeting.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Amber Feature Requests</head>
<table>
<row>
<cell><hi style="bold">Number</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Description</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Notes</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/513/">513</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/513/">`<gi>resp</gi>` should be a member of att.datable</ref></cell>
<cell>Group A: group recommends accepting and adding examples of the
                                multiple ways of doing it. Council agrees: Assign to SB, make
                                green</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/512/">512</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/512/">Make <att>new</att> obligatory attribute of <gi>shift</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group A: We think we should not make this mandatory, owing to
                                    backwards compatibility of document instances, but that we
                                    should strongly recommend (and use in all our examples) a
                                    <att>new</att>=unmarked (or <att>new</att>=normal or whatever makes sense). But we
                                    will reconsider when the transcription of speech proposal is
                                    fully made. </p>
<p>Council agrees: Green. Add a schematron
                                    constraint to work as a <att>validUntil</att> to remove the optionality of
                                    <att>new</att> and make it mandatory.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/511/">511</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/511/">New element <gi>transcriptionDesc</gi> as a possible child of
                                    <gi>encodingDesc</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group A: We worry about confusion with non-speech
                                    transcription; But we believe that T. Schmidt’s situation would
                                    likely be well handled by a new child of <gi>editorialDecl</gi>,
                                    perhaps <gi>convention</gi> or some such. We’d like to ask
                                    Schmidt what he needs and if this would solve his case, but
                                    given that we are expecting a significant transcription of
                                    speech proposal from Schmidt, we’ll wait to see. </p>
<p>Council:
                                    Wait for final draft of proposal.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/510/">510</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/510/">add a correspondence module and elements for capturing
                                    correspondence specific meta data</ref></cell>
<cell>Group B: discussed briefly but felt that not ready for decision
                                yet; Council agrees to feed back suggests as and when asked.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/509/">509</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/509/"><att>cert</att> not allowed for rs</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: agree with this, to be implemented, even though it
                                    will be affected by longer-term discussion over <att>resp</att></p>
<p>Council agrees: Green; <gi>rs</gi> should have same attributes as
                                    name. </p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/507/">507</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/507/">create generic policy for the TEI on integration of external
                                    standards</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: felt that the draft guidelines are not ready yet,
                                    think it should stay with SB to edit more and explain.
                                    </p>
<p>Council: Agrees, SB/LB to edit, explain, and propose to
                                    Council.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/506/">506</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/506/">pubPlace for the TEI Guidelines as a document</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group C: yes, <ref target="/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/TitlePageRecto.html">http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/TitlePageRecto.html</ref>
                                    change – to Arlington MA? or elsewhere?. While we’re at it,
                                    change “edited by Lou Burnard and Syd Bauman” as well? To the
                                    Council as a corporate author? Or are Lou and Syd still the
                                    authors of P5 as such? </p>
<p>Council: Green, assigned to LB.
                                    (editors already changed)</p>
<p>cf http://bits.nsms.ox.ac.uk:8080/jenkins/job/TEIP5/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/TitlePageRecto.html
                                    for current state of source</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/">505</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/">Redefine <gi>msPart</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group C: Yes, redefining <gi>msPart</gi> in order to handle a single ms
                                    that has been torn asunder is probably the easiest strategy with
                                    fewest adverse consequences. Easiest just to change definition
                                    of <gi>msPart</gi> as noted in the FR. If we do that, we might also want
                                    to make some elements of the parent <gi>msDesc</gi> optional, so as not
                                    to force people to name the hitherto nameless quasi-abstract
                                    object. Alternative strategies are possible, eg adding another
                                    element that actually means the re-composed object in order to
                                    wrap multiple msDescs which each describes a part; or a linking
                                    element that associates multiple parts with a virtual whole; or
                                    even allowing msDesc itself to nest instead of repurposing
                                    mspart.</p>
<p>In any case the Guidelines <ref target="/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/MS.html#msid">http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/MS.html#msid</ref>
                                    needed to be corrected for the “scattered” part. The definition
                                    needs to change to not require originall distinct or composite.
                                    </p>
<p>If no <gi>msPart</gi> with <gi>msIdentifier</gi>: <gi>msIdentifier</gi>
                                    required.</p>
<p>Council has not decided and will investigate
                                    this further (PWS/SG) and survey the community. </p>
<p>Action: on PWS/SG to investigate <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/">FR505</ref>, survey
                                    community, and report back to Council.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/504/">504</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/504/">Replace <att>active</att> and <att>passive</att> on relation with <att>from</att> and
                                    <att>to</att></ref></cell>
<cell>Group C: TLDR; Council: to discuss later (see below).</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/503/">503</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/503/">remedy the prose-structure-antagonism within the content model
                                    of person</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group A: We still suggest following the “hack” suggested on the
                                    wiki page (use note) for now. This will be reconsidered when
                                    rationalising person/place/org/event/object ; </p>
<p>Council:
                                    won’t fix this but may reassess when rationalising named entity
                                    elements.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/501/">501</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/501/">Add notion of model.resourceLike to description of
                                    teiHeader</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group A: Definition of ‘TEI’ needs to change, then ticket can
                                    be closed. </p>
<p>Council:PWS to summarise changes needed to
                                    Council list.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/500/">500</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/500/">Allow note within sourceDesc</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group A: The ticket does not make a convincing (semantic) case
                                    for the need for a change here, so we propose closing the ticket
                                    without action. An alternative proposal for handling
                                    born-digital documents specifically might be raised (e.g. making
                                    <gi>sourceDesc</gi> optional, with the express implication that
                                    if you omit it, you are declaring that your document is
                                    born-digital). </p>
<p>Council: Agrees.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/499/">499</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/499/">change semantics of <att>except</att> and <att>include</att> on
                                moduleRef</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: rejected. stick to what the guideline says, which is
                                    <att>except</att> and <att>include</att> only apply to elements. ACTION ON SR to
                                    make sure that this is what is actually implemented in odd2odd,
                                    i.e. remove hacks. </p>
<p>Council: agrees;
                                closed-wontfix</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/498/">498</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/498/">Permit new <gi>persona</gi> as a child of
                                <gi>person</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: agreed to ask proposer to submit a spec for
                                    <gi>persona</gi>. Broad agreement that its a good idea.
                                    </p>
<p>Council: Mostly agrees, give us an <gi>elementSpec</gi> to
                                    consider.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/497/">497</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/497/">Change <att>role</att> to allow one or more values</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: this looks a corrigible error. make it Green and
                                    implement</p>
<p>Council: agrees.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/496/">496</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/496/">`<gi>taxonomy</gi>` should be allowed as a child of
                                    `<gi>category</gi>`</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group C: Clarification? the example seems to be mixing two
                                    different axes of information. Shouldn’t these be two different
                                    taxonomies (objection: this loses hierarchy; but present example
                                    and use case is not really hierarchical in any case). Could this
                                    be a special category that doesn’t inherit? Discussion of
                                    concept of including non-inheriting categories inside a
                                    taxonomy. MH will produce his actual use case or a trimmed-down
                                    version of same, rather than the present made-up example which
                                    is not persuasive. </p>
<p>Council: agrees to reexamine when MH
                                    elaborates.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/495/">495</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/495/">Allow <gi>listRelation</gi> in <gi>biblStruct</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group C: the argument could be made for consistency reasons BUT
                                    the inclusion of <gi>listRelation</gi> to modeel.biblPart seems like a
                                    bug <gi>whereas</gi><gi>listRelation</gi> should be allowed in <gi>listBibl</gi> (since
                                    listRelation is allowed in several other list*). Additionally,
                                    there are at least two other existing possibilities to link
                                    bibls: <gi>relatedItem</gi> (either used to point to or to
                                    contain the <gi>biblStruct</gi> of the realted item), or
                                    <gi>link</gi>. </p>
<p>Council: doesn’t think it should be in
                                    <gi>biblStruct</gi>. closed-wontfix; But is happy to add <gi>listRelation</gi> to
                                    <gi>listBibl</gi>. SB to implement.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/492/">492</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/492/">Allow bibl inside app</ref></cell>
<cell>Group A and C: See discussion of FR491 below.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/491/">491</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/491/">Allow ref inside app</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group A and C: This represents an attempt to use the TEI
                                    apparatus system to capture all the literals of a printed
                                    apparatus, essentially duplicating the functionality of
                                    <gi>app</gi> by using <gi>ref</gi> within <gi>app</gi> to capture
                                    the literal reference to the edited text. This is a bit
                                    troubling. Partly in general, because this seems an
                                    unsatisfactory halfway house (one should either use <gi>app</gi>
                                    to recast the apparatus, or capture the existing apparatus as
                                    <gi>list</gi> within <gi>note</gi> or sim.); partly for
                                    slim-end-of-the-wedge reasons: how, for example, would the
                                    introduction of <gi>ref</gi> allow the tagging of a reference to
                                    a line span? (as <gi>app</gi> does using <att>from</att> and <att>to</att>)? Would we
                                    then be asked to add <att>from</att> and <att>to</att> to <gi>ref</gi>? And finally,
                                    for logistical reasons: how exactly would one introduce <gi>ref</gi> and
                                <gi>bibl</gi> (see <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/491/">FR492</ref>) using the existing content models? (See
                                    below.) On the other hand, perhaps we have already conceded this
                                    one by allowing <gi>wit</gi> and other general elements
                                    (model.global). One approach to acceding to this request would be
                                    to create model.appPart, add wit, ref, model.rdgLike, <gi>rdgGrp</gi>,
                                    and <gi>bibl</gi> (and model.pPart.transcriptional?!) to it, and simplify
                                    the content model of <gi>app</gi> based on this.</p>
<p>Council: Reached
                                    no clear consensus on this. JC to report back to Council. But
                                    see discussion below on 492.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/490/">490</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/490/">un-bundle <att>cert</att> and <att>resp</att></ref></cell>
<cell>(Discussed separately as part of <att>resp</att> discussion)</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/489/">489</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/489/">Make teiHeader/<att>type</att> explicitly map to dc:type by using terms
                                    from DCMI</ref></cell>
<cell>Group A: ok, at least as a suggestion option. Council
                                agrees.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/488/">488</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/488/">Add <att>points</att> to att.coordinated</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: agreed, this looks like a corrigible error. Implement
                                    it. MH will raise separate ticket to point out that surfaceGrp
                                    should be stripped of its data-holding attribute classes.
                                    </p>
<p>Council: Agrees.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/486/">486</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/486/">deprecating members of a content model</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: will be done using Schematron </p>
<p>Council:
                                    Agrees.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">482</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">The term strikes back – terminology chapter</ref></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Discussed Separately</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/443/">443</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/443/"><att>resp</att> should be a member of att.global</ref></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Discussed Separately</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/666/">666</ref></cell>
<cell>video html to tei</cell>
<cell>Council agrees there is a problem. Use case: You have a .mp4 and a
                                .mov and a .avi and a .png and a .jpg. Show the mp4 if possible, or
                                other video, then fallback to the images, png preferred. Council
                                wonders whether it should invent a new grouping element. SR to make
                                a more concrete proposal to Council. </cell>
</row>
</table>
</div></div>
<div><head>
                Wednesday</head>
<div><head>
                    TEI Standoff and Linked Data representations</head>
<p>HC started off by explaining the background of the following ticket:</p>
<table>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/504/">504</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/504/">Replace <att>active</att> and <att>passive</att> on relation with <att>from</att> and
                                    <att>to</att></ref></cell>
<cell>Group C: TLDR; Council: to discuss later.</cell>
</row>
</table>
<p>Council discussed the difference between making things easier for RDF-users
                        and renaming these attributes. LB suggests that the ticket be re-framed in
                        the form of a proposal to re-purpose <gi>graph</gi> and <gi>arc</gi> for this
                        purpose, since they’re already closer to the proposed purpose and have <att>from</att>
                        and <att>to</att>; there would just need to be either a new attribute or a method of
                        using one of the existing ones (<att>ana</att>?) to characterize the relation. SB
                        suggested simply embedding RDF XML in your TEI. HC objects that RDF XML is a
                        terrible format, and that embedding elements from another namespace is not
                        ideal. JC tasks LB &amp; HC &amp; SR to write a brief report examining:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>using <gi>relation</gi></item>
<item>embedding &lt;rdf:RDF&gt;</item>
<item>co-opting <gi>arc</gi></item>
<item>using another existing mechanism</item>
<item>creating a new mechanism altogether</item>
</list>
<p>Action: LB/HC/SR: write brief report before next f2f on FR504
                        examining options including 1) using <gi>relation</gi>; 2) embedding
                        &lt;rdf:RDF&gt;; 3) co-opting <gi>arc</gi>; 4) using another existing
                        mechanism; 5) creating a new mechanism altogether</p>
</div>
<div>
                    <head>FR492 (bibl in app).</head>
<p>HC and JC argued it was a corrigible bug.</p>
<p>Discussion centred on allowing a looser content model of app vs retaining it
                        as the structured element it was intended as. MH suggests rationalising
                        content model of app to make inclusion of new elements here easier as
                        needed. FC wants to preserve the distinction between new digital apparatus
                        and transcription of print critical apparatus. (HC notes a task force from
                        MS SIG was meant to be investigating this, but has not made any progress.)
                        FC would accept this request but purely as a starting point to rethinking
                        the apparatus. HC suggests putting the <gi>ref</gi> in the <gi>lem</gi>, but
                        <gi>bibl</gi> should be add. JC tasks HC, JC, MH and other interested parties
                        to discuss on the ticket (492) to sort out appPart.</p>
<p>LB notes “Global is as Global does”.</p>
<p>HC to poke the MS SIG working group on Crit App and get them to comment on
                        these relevant tickets.</p>
<p>Action: on HC/JC/MH (and other interested parties): discuss
                        appPart on ticket FR492</p>
<p>Action: on HC to encourage MS SIG to comment on this (FR492) and
                        other relevant tickets.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    TEI Release</head>
<p>This is intended to be after the 7th of August. EM and SB to jointly be
                        release managers. JC notes he is willing to send out the release notice on
                        his holiday but will be otherwise out of contact.</p>
<p>SB to suggest a date within 1 week.</p>
<p>May have to push to early Sep.</p>
<p>Action: on SB to nail down date of release in next couple of weeks</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Guidelines Translation</head>
<p>MH on Guidelines translation (with help from FC): Italian and German teams
                        are not making much progress. Is there anything we can do?</p>
<p>MH summarised the problem of getting volunteers to provide translations. FC
                        suggested possible sources of getting the funding to do this. FC expects to
                        talk to DARIAH folks at a meeting soon, and will try to find some funding.
                        JC offers to ask Board for money if we have a concrete proposal. SR notes
                        that we did this before, and finding money for a one-off solution is what
                        got us into this position. MH: Council should do this (maintenance of
                        existing translations) now since it has foreign language speakers. EM
                        suggests that the reference pages should indicate when a description is out
                        of date (potentially linking to english version, and form to submit new
                        translation).</p>
<p><ref target="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AhciBT9b4XaZdGxVaXY3UkEtQUdJVkktMzI5ZjE2TGc&amp;usp=drive_web#gid=0">https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AhciBT9b4XaZdGxVaXY3UkEtQUdJVkktMzI5ZjE2TGc&amp;usp=drive_web#gid=0</ref></p>
<p><ref target="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AvMzvVg_yrT8dG9tX2lLRGdXcDRYbUU3MTliR3hnenc&amp;usp=drive_web#gid=0">https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AvMzvVg_yrT8dG9tX2lLRGdXcDRYbUU3MTliR3hnenc&amp;usp=drive_web#gid=0</ref></p>
<p>FC thinks management of it will be fine. (And volunteers to still do Italian
                        translations even when off Council.) PWS: wants to crowdsource with an app.
                        EM: Who will proofread? FC: Must have an editor. PWS: A web based editor
                        will help attract people to do this.</p>
<p>Council reached no clear consensus on what to do about maintenance or
                        expansion of translations because of the problems involved in doing so. This
                        will be raised again.</p>
<p>James to ask the Board:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Should we continue to support so many languages?</item>
<item>Should we prioritize translation into other “less obvious” languages
                            eg Arabic, Hindi, Hebrew?</item>
<item>How can the Board best support the community of translators? </item>
</list>
<p>MH wishes to relinquish the ticket to someone more qualified to engage
                        directly with one of the target languages.</p>
<p>Action: on JC: Ask TEI Board: Should we continue to support so
                        many languages? Should we prioritize translation into other “less obvious”
                        languages eg Arabic, Hindi, Hebrew? How can the Board best support the
                        community of translators? </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    TEI Future Developments &amp; Bluesky thinking </head>
<div><head>
                        Council Meetings</head>
<p>Are F2F meetings the best use of money every time? Generally accepted by
                            Council that F2F is indeed significantly beneficial for various reasons.
                            Partly it makes discussion easier, partly it forces us to get work done,
                            partly it encourages knowledge exchange of technical aspects of Council
                            duties? EM suggested attempting to use video conferencing technology
                            again for teleconferences. Generally agreed that we could try this again
                            (But that many people have problems in doing so.) </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                        Council departures</head>
<p>How do we ensure continuity of maintenance of our outputs, given the
                            inevitability of Council departures? Specifically: how best to cope with
                            things such as SR’s upcoming departure from Council (e.g. maintenance of
                            stylesheets; Roma; OxGarage; and thorough knowledge of occult magic in
                            ODD processing). </p>
<p>JC: Should we be training people up in maintenance of the Stylesheets?
                            MH: Yes. Should we be prepared to abandon support of stylesheets that
                            TEI never formally undertook to develop to begin with? E.g. docx, doc,
                            epub? Or are they so inextricably tied to TEI that we must maintain
                            them?</p>
<p>SR: not a unique problem: every software project requires that one
                            acquaint oneself with someone else’s code. JC: But the Stylesheets
                            model Sebastian’s understanding and even experienced XSLT programmers
                            find some aspects difficult. More documentation needed! Currently
                            scattered and incomplete; needs to be put in a form that is genuinely
                            useful to as many people as possible. SR: Perhaps Magdalena (JC’s DiXiT
                            Fellow) could contribute.</p>
<p>MH suggests: Ahead of the next Council meeting, MH, JC, HC?, and SB
                            should be tasked each with creating a <hi style="bold">20 minute</hi>
                            presentation on some aspect of the stylesheets or processing, which will
                            be presented to the group with Sebastian as respondent (at his final
                            Council meeting). This should go some way towards generating and
                            propagating more expertise in bugfixing and development of the
                            stylesheets codebase. These will be of permanent value if (and probably
                            only if) the presentations themselves can serve as pieces of
                            documentation that interlock into a working paper such as MH’s paper on
                            Jenkins. EM: in order to spread the knowledge, assign stylesheet issues
                            on github to someone other than SR, to Council members who have enough
                            XSLT to have a chance at success, but enough ignorance of the
                            stylesheets to benefit from the experience.</p>
<p>Action: on MH/JC/SB/HC: Discuss with each other and each
                            create a 20 minute presentation for the next F2F on some aspects of
                            stylesheets or other arcane TEI processing that may be difficult for
                            others to understand.</p>
<p>Council summarises some of the software it has some responsibility
                            for:</p>
<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">Roma:</hi> Council discusses Roma’s increasing
                                out-datedness and continued desire for a replacement. Recall old
                                discussions of TEI paying for Roma replacement; or, perhaps better,
                                a clean new ODD editor and processor. <ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1766WTJV2xcfANh8HRZW5m520yrC1nCzQJzUgKpwiylI/edit?usp=sharing">Unfinished draft requirements-document for such a replacement
                                    exists</ref>. Should it be finished? made public? In present
                                form (as a list of functional requirements) or as a proper IT
                                specification? Does <ref target="http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/Byzantium">Byzantium</ref> (<ref target="https://github.com/sebastianrahtz/Byzantium">https://github.com/sebastianrahtz/Byzantium</ref>) supply a
                                good start? Design of UI and Implemention are two separate tasks.
                                Have a UI design competition? </item>
<item><hi style="bold">Jenkins:</hi> MH has nicely documented this in
                                    <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Setting_up_a_Jenkins_server">the wiki</ref> and in a working paper linked therefrom.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">OxGarage:</hi> MH sets one up in Victoria and
                                documents it.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Stylesheets:</hi> Council will follow MH’s
                                suggestion above; ODD processing stylesheets are a priority.</item>
</list>
</div></div>
</div>
<div><head>
                Remaining Tickets</head>
<div><head>
                    Remaining Amber FR</head>
<table>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/490/">490</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/490/">un-bundle <att>cert</att> and <att>resp</att></ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>(Discussed separately?) </p>
<p>Council: delegated to global
                                    applicability of <att>resp</att> taskforce.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/489/">489</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/489/">Make teiHeader/​<att>type</att> explicitly map to dc:type by using terms
                                    from DCMI</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group A: ok, at least as a suggestion option.</p>
<p>Council:
                                    Initially agrees as suggested values, but then worries about
                                    whether <att>type</att> of <gi>teiHeader</gi> is accurately being
                                    classified. PFS to implement.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/485/">485</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/485/">add element rs as member of model.linePart</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: N, reject; closed-wontfix. </p>
<p>Council:
                                    agrees.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/484/">484</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/484/">`<gi>availability</gi>` should be a member of
                                    model.biblPart</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group C: seems sensible. Go green.; </p>
<p>Council: Agree, add
                                    to monogr/series/analytic as well.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/483/">483</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/483/">change datatype of <att>medium</att> to “1–∞ occurrences of data.name
                                    separated by whitespace”</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group A: Agrees. </p>
<p>Council
                                        agrees it should be one to infinity but not data.word, still
                                        data.enumerated.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">482</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">The term strikes back – terminology chapter</ref></cell>
<cell>Discussed Separately</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/480/">480</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/480/">Adding the <att>hand</att> attribute to all (or most) text-containing
                                    elements</ref></cell>
<cell>Council does not think <att>hand</att> should be global; LB
                                    to see if tighter FR possible.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/479/">479</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/479/">Adding the <att>place</att> attribute to <gi>head</gi> and
                                    <gi>seg</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>&gt;Requestor needs to provide more examples,
                                    otherwise SR to close.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/470/">470</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/470/">att.measurement and att.dimensions overlap</ref></cell>
<cell>Council agrees. MH to implement.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/459/">459</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/459/">warn user of dropped constructs</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: Yes, we need to make schematron rules, but have a way
                                    to do that now. Close this ticket. </p>
<p>Council: Agree, SB to
                                    implement Schematron </p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/457/">457</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/457/">make explicit difference between tagUsage and ODD
                                    documentation</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: We believe the answers to Kevin’s 4 questions are
                                    clear. LB to summarise. Council: Current usage: 1) Yes..if you
                                    need more, do it in your ODD. 2) Yes, if you use <gi>tagUsage</gi> you
                                    must do it for all elements as it says in the prose of the
                                    guidelines. 3) No. It is to put in notes if you want. 4) It is
                                    about specific usage in a particular document. </p>
<p>Council
                                    discussed whether to change <gi>tagUsage</gi> requiring one for each
                                    element in the text — separate FR. Close ticket.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/453/">453</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/453/">a place for metadata that you can’t fit into existing header
                                    elements</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: closed-reject — but we should produce more crosswalk
                                    use cases / demonstrations. Council: SB/FC think we should have
                                    this and use NVDL to validate it. Much discussion. FC wants a
                                    task force to reexamine our relationship with other metadata
                                    cases/demonstrations. </p>
<p>Council: FC to make a proposal.
                                    Close ticket in meantime.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/422/">422</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/422/">teitoX: support passing configuration to saxon</ref></cell>
<cell>Council: Stylesheets issue, move to github; close
                                    ticket.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/393/">393</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/393/">availability</ref></cell>
<cell>Council: LB seems to have completed ticket; close.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/387/">387</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/387/">allow <gi>head</gi> in more places in div*, table, and
                                    list</ref></cell>
<cell>Council: PFS to investigate</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/384/">384</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/384/">free-standing attributes -&gt; class</ref></cell>
<cell>Council: PFS to follow up.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/378/">378</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/378/">Encoding of Standoff annotations</ref></cell>
<cell>Council should comment.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/360/">360</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/360/">New attribute <att>keepHyphen</att></ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: PFS maybe find an example, add to guidelines, close
                                    ticket. </p>
<p>Council: Close ticket.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/342/">342</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/342/">New section on encoding text directionality</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B:Done. </p>
<p>Council: Done.</p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/326/">326</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/326/">an <gi>object</gi> element</ref></cell>
<cell>
<p>Group B: We’re waiting for a proposal. </p>
<p>Council: keep
                                    ticket open.</p>
</cell>
</row>
</table>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Red Bugs for review</head>
<table>
<row>
<cell><hi style="bold">#</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Summary</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Description / Actions /Descions</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/666/">666</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/666/">video html to
                                    tei</ref></cell>
<cell/></row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/515/">515</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/515/">Bad example
                                    of feature/​<att>fVal</att></ref></cell>
<cell> Council: Close ticket. </cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/440/">440</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/440/">mssing error
                                    if an object with the same identifier exists</ref></cell>
<cell> Council: agrees to close.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/292/">292</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/292/">GLs say add
                                    ‘ns’ decl, but roma objects</ref></cell>
<cell> Council: Tasks SB to check if still a problem, if not close
                                ticket.</cell>
</row>
</table>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Red FR for Review</head>
<p><hi style="bold">Showing 8 results of 8</hi></p>
<table>
<row>
<cell><hi style="bold">#</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Summary▾</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Description/decision/actions</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/502/">502</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/502/">Stored TEI tag after convert</ref></cell>
<cell> Council: Close adding an issue in GitHub</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/464/">464</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/464/">Need for some way to test the oxygen-tei package before
                                    release</ref></cell>
<cell> Council: close in despair… only able to test manually.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/366/">366</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/366/">rationalize content models of org and place (etc)</ref></cell>
<cell> Council: waiting on JC</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/324/">324</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/324/">Allow certainty etc. inside milestoneLike elements</ref></cell>
<cell> Council: Action on Council to read and comment by 1
                                October.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/300/">300</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/300/">Move witStart et al. to model.milestoneLike</ref></cell>
<cell> Council: discussed in depth; these belong in rdgPart; other
                                techniques should be used for outside app. close-wontfix</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/292/">292</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/292/">add SourceForge feeds to
                                    http:/​/​www.tei-c.org/​Activities/​</ref></cell>
<cell> Council: close, pending new CMS</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/289/">289</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/289/">att.canonical for model.persTraitLike</ref></cell>
<cell> Council: Waiting on JC.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/160/">160</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/160/">Alignment and documentation of sound files</ref></cell>
<cell>Council: close.</cell>
</row>
</table>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Conclusion</head>
<p>JC thanked Council for coming to Oxford and working so hard on all the
                        tickets and additional discussions. He noted minutes might take a while to
                        arrive since DH2014 and DHOxSS are imminent and so apologises for that in
                        advance.</p>
<p>Some weirdos then proposed a vote of thanks to the chair, who got all
                        embarrassed and suggested they go to supper.</p>
</div>
</div>
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>