<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2014-11"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2014-11" from="2014-11-17" to="2014-11-19">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Raleigh</placeName>, <date>17–19 November
     2014</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM063</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21919</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		<!-- <div class="teiheader"><filedesc><titlestmt><title><date from="2014-11-17" to="2014-11-19">17-19
                        November 2014</date></title><author>TEI Technical Council</author><respstmt><resp>Initial Encoding</resp><name>James Cummings</name></respstmt></titlestmt><editionstmt><edition><date when="2014-11-29">29 November 2014 </date></edition></editionstmt><publicationstmt>
<p>Freely available under a CC+By licence</p>
</publicationstmt><sourcedesc><p>Converted from a Google Doc that all Council Members edited during the
                    meeting.</p>
<p>            </sourcedesc></filedesc></div> -->
<p><hi style="bold">Participants: </hi>Syd Bauman (SB), Lou Burnard (LB), Hugh Cayless
                (HC), Fabio Ciotti (FC), James Cummings (JC) (Chair), Martin Holmes (MH), Elli
                Mylonas (EM), Paul F Schaffner (PFS), Peter W Stadler (PWS)</p>
<p><hi style="bold">Intermittently participating remotely:</hi> Sebastian Rahtz (SR),
                Stefanie Gehrke (SG)</p>
<div><head>
                Actions</head>
<list type="unordered">
<item><hi style="bold">Action: All members of council interested in TEI Simple to
                            join the mailing list </hi><ref target="https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple">https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple</ref></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: on LB Set up a mailing list to discuss ODD/Pure
                            ODD</hi>, etc. (Done; see <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar</ref>)</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: on ALL interested in ODD/Pure ODD, join tei-odds
                            mailing list </hi><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar</ref></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: LB to continue development/implementation of Pure
                            ODD with SR and report back to council on new developments</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: JC to try to find a co-organiser for DH2015 TEI
                            HackAThon.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: PWS to revise the draft correspDesc proposal and
                            draw attention to council for final review before implementing as part
                            of the TEI Guidelines.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: SB/MH/LB to offer themselves as TEI mentors to
                            members of Council and encourage new members to ask them (or council)
                            questions.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: MH to post to council mailing list making
                            suggestions for mentorship programme</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: LB volunteers to mentor Stefan.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: MH to act as JTEI liaison for now, reporting on
                            any major changes to JTEI Schema and authoring package.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: MH to separate out anything that shouldn’t be
                            public in the JTEI Schema, merge in schematron constraints,
                            documentation, etc. and add to TEI Sourceforge Repository. Add JTEI
                            Authoring environment to the oxygen-tei framework.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: on MH to implement @resp changes, and update prose
                            and examples in Guidelines to have @resp point to respStmt
                        (etc.)</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: SB to inform council in future about developments
                            of this draft (LOC date attrs) e.g. if it might be adopted by ISO or W3C
                            etc.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: LB to create tickets for the 2 new
                        elements</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: ALL to read the draft (link above) and be ready to
                            comment on it at next conference call (or soon thereafter)</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: JC to create a proposal listing those parts which
                            are required for generation of the TEI products (Guidelines, schemas
                            etc.)</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: JC to add each council member as a member of a
                            team with admin powers to the TEI-C github organization</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: PWS/MH to update SVN Documentation and include
                            information concerning GitHub</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: PWS to return to Council mailing list with call
                            for testing or suggestions on improvement for a TEI Checker web service
                            in the next few weeks, and Council to respond with suggested
                            improvements.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: HC to produce an updated Critical Apparatus ODD
                            and redraft document for Council discussion.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: on JC, MH, HC, SB consider wherever possible
                            writing additional documentation, blog posts, or similar on the
                            technical aspects presented, and notify council or TEI-L.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: On ALL to look at tickets assigned to them and
                            update them with latest status, and implement where
                        possible.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                Monday 2014-11-17</head>
<div><head> id="TEISimple"&gt;
                    TEI Simple
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item> JC reports on TEI Simple and notes his TEI Conference paper, at <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/blob/master/advisory/report-teimm-2014.pdf?raw=true">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/blob/master/advisory/report-teimm-2014.pdf?raw=true</ref></item>
<item>The TEI Simple proposal will be presented to Council toward the end of
                            the project. If approved by Council, it has been previously agreed (and
                            is an explicit part of the bid) that TEI Simple will be integrated into
                            the TEI structure thenceforth, i.e. it will become something to be
                            maintained by Council as part of TEI. The character of the documentation
                            has yet to be fully determined, but it would take the advice of Council
                            on the creation of it. SR notes that novice documentation is the first
                            priority. JC:Mellon funding goes until through July of 2015, by which
                            time it is to be expected that the project will have created a
                            processing model, at least minimal documentation, and ‘TEI performance
                            indicators’. </item>
<item>The primary means of access to the project is the TEI Simple mailing
                            list at <ref target="https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple">https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple</ref> All of
                            council were encourage to join.</item>
<item>A discussion of how best to cope with a perceived need to upcode TEI
                            Simple, perhaps by including the names of specific (non-Simple) elements
                            among the permitted values of the type attribute of more generic
                            elements, reached instead the opposite consensus: that users of Simple
                            should be encouraged to use specific elements, not generic ones; that
                            Simple is designed to avoid ambiguity and excessive choice, not to keep
                            the element count down to (e.g.) less than a hundred; and that if enough
                            users of Simple need a specific element, that element should be added to
                            Simple rather than depending on seg type=”foo”. This has always been the
                            mantra of TEI Simple, that “Simple does not necessarily mean small, but
                            powerful.”</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: All members of council interested in TEI
                                Simple to join the mailing list </hi><ref target="https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple">https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple</ref></item>

</list>
<div><head> id="PureODD"&gt;
                    Pure ODD
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>LB: Apologies: discussion of contextual dependency issues not yet
                            started. E.g. I have <gi>p</gi> in both header and text, and I want them
                            to have different content models. This will be done soon.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: on LB Set up a mailing list to discuss
                                ODD/Pure ODD</hi>, etc. (Done; see <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar</ref>)</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: on ALL interested in ODD/Pure ODD, join
                                tei-odds mailing list </hi><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar</ref></item>
<item>Do we need <gi>textNode</gi>? or <gi>mixedContent</gi>? Decision is
                            holding up completion of<ref target="http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/Oxford/2014-10-odds/pureODDtutorial.xml"/><ref target="http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/Oxford/2014-10-odds/pureODDtutorial.xml">introductory tutorial</ref>. At our last discussion of this, we
                            agreed that using @allowText for mixed content models was not a good
                            idea. We liked the idea of <gi>mixedContent</gi> for text and element
                            content arranged in the traditional way. However, later, it was argued
                            that this was special-casing something which wasn’t special; actually
                            text nodes should be the special case. We have been representing text
                            nodes with a macro, but we might instead use an element
                            <gi>textNode</gi>. This allows the definition of content models which
                            can’t be represented in current schema languages. SB comments that you
                            can’t have a macro unless you have a primative <gi>textNode</gi> anyway.
                            LB hopes Council will agree that we should have <gi>textNode</gi>, and if
                            we have it, we no longer need the idea of <gi>mixedContent</gi>, which we
                            all agreed to in Oxford. <egXML xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/Examples"><mixedcontent><elementref key="a"/><elementref key="b"/></mixedcontent></egXML> stands for <egXML xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/Examples"><alternate minoccurs="0" maxoccurs="unbounded"><textnode/><elementref key="a"/><elementref key="b"/></alternate></egXML></item>
<item>SB points out that <gi>mixedContent</gi> saves a bit of typing and
                            provides an easy way to get an XML DTD-compliant content model, but in
                            no way is required. The general consensus was that <gi>mixedContent</gi>
                            is going to be more trouble than it is worth, and that a separate
                            <gi>textNode</gi> element is a good idea.</item>
<item>LB points out that ODD uses two different types of macros: 
<list type="ordered">
<item>standing in for datatype</item>
<item>standing in for a bit of ODD</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>SR has proposed that we invent <gi>dataRef</gi> for the former purpose,
                            to make the distinction clearer (ticket 530 later in meeting). In the
                            short term it would point to W3C datatypes, but in future, SB points
                            out, we can use it to point to other datatype libraries/systems; he
                            points out that Jeni Tennison has created a language for describing
                            datatypes. (See <ref target="http://www.jenitennison.com/datatypes/DTLL.html">http://www.jenitennison.com/datatypes/DTLL.html</ref> for the
                            Datatype Library Language.)</item>
<item>LB notes the latest version of Pure ODD tutorial developed for recent
                            tutorials: <ref target="http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/Oxford/2014-10-odds/pureODDtutorial.xml">http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/Oxford/2014-10-odds/pureODDtutorial.xml</ref>
                            for Council consideration. SR reports on the ODD workshop at Evanston,
                            that there weren’t major misunderstandings about Pure ODD. LB discusses
                            timescale for future improvements and development including when to
                            convert the guidelines to Pure ODD. Converting the content models to
                            Pure ODD will involve lots of testing. Also Stylesheets will need to be
                            updated, particularly in the presentation of reference documentation. We
                            shouldn’t have major upgrades to documentation at the same time. The
                            reference pages currently toggle content models between the two syntaxes
                            of RELAX NG but this would be problematic in Pure ODD. What do we show?
                            Pure ODD, or option to see that in schema language of your
                            choice?</item>
<item>After the meeting the SB noted that Council’s much earlier decision of
                                <ref target="/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm07.xml">Fri 2003-06-16 (point 8)</ref> still makes sense to him: <q>
<p>Council debated at some length which schema language should be
                                    used, and the extent to which it should be exposed to users of
                                    the Guidelines, before voting on the following propositions:</p>
<list type="unordered">
<item>The maintenance form for the definition of the TEI schema
                                        should be RelaxNG</item>
<item>In the printed form of the Guidelines, formal definitions
                                        for elements should be given using the RelaxNG ‘compact’
                                        syntax</item>
<item>In digital versions of the Guidelines, formal definitions
                                        should be available in one or more of the available schema
                                        languages (DTD, W3C schema, RelaxNG) as a user-configurable
                                        option</item>
<item>It should be possible for users to define extensions in
                                        any of the three schema languages</item>
</list>
<p>Each of the above motions was carried unanimously.</p>
                           </q></item>
<item>JC, also after the fact, noted that these decisions are entirely up
                            for review as part of the development, implementation, documentation,
                            and adoption of Pure ODD and we shouldn’t feel bound by them, but if SB
                            wants to make this argument then the TEI ODDs mailing list is the
                            appropriate place.</item>
<item>Does the Big Push to Pure ODD wait until contextual constraints are
                            solved? Discussion of what these would be, and how they’d be
                            implemented. MH suggests “if we are going to do it, lets do it right”.
                            Bootstrapping problem that we don’t have enough experience with Pure
                            ODD, so not sure we have enough knowledge of the problems yet. </item>
<item>Roadmap: Once Pure ODD has <gi>textNode</gi> and <gi>dataRef</gi>
                            functionality then that should be considered Pure ODD version 1.0.
                            Adding contextual dependency, perhaps as a 2.0 release, requires
                            notation and implementation.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: LB to continue development/implementation of
                                Pure ODD with SR and report back to council on new
                            developments</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="DH2015-HackAThon"&gt;
                    TEI DH2015 HackAThon
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>Syd, James, Martin plan to be at DH 2015. Conal Tuohy will presumably
                            be there too, as well as others from Australia with a technical TEI bent
                            who could be approached as well.<list type="unordered">
<item>LB suggests a build-a-TEI-website project (50 texts with
                                    images, use some standard CMSes, eXist, etc.)</item>
<item>ODD Visualization<list type="unordered">
<item>MH suggests a tool that compares two project ODDs or
                                            RELAX NG schemas and shows how they intersect. SB thinks
                                            Michael Sperberg-McQueen has already created a version
                                            of such a tool for DTDs.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>FC suggests a TEI XQuery function library.</item>
<item>EM suggests instead of “hackathon” we could call it the “TEI
                                    Build an XQuery Library” workshop if it’s going to be focussed
                                    in this way — the TEI is determining the task in advance.</item>
<item>Who will run it? Can we find an Australian to (co-)organize
                                    it?</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Consensus is generally that building a TEI XQuery function library (to
                            create all sorts of interesting output) would be a good topic.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: JC to try to find a co-organiser for DH2015
                                TEI HackAThon.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="correspondence"&gt;
                    Correspondence
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item> Some pointers:<list type="unordered">
<item>SF Ticket: <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/510/">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/510/</ref></item>
<item>Evanston talk: <ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/16DTp789wkrhPXH_79zexSy8wHWZId7W-RZkO4e1BAGM/edit?usp=sharing">https://docs.google.com/document/d/16DTp789wkrhPXH_79zexSy8wHWZId7W-RZkO4e1BAGM/edit?usp=sharing</ref></item>
<item>GitHub repo: <ref target="https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc">https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>PWS summarised current state of Correspondence proposals. </item>
<item>Council nit-picked over details hoping tease out a generalised
                            solution.</item>
<item>The general consensus seems to be:<list type="unordered">
<item><gi>correspDesc</gi> will be repeatable because it will be a
                                    member of model.profileDescPart.</item>
<item><gi>correspDesc</gi> will contain one or more
                                    <gi>correspAction</gi> elements in sequence representing
                                    correspondence actions such as sending, receiving, signing, etc. </item>
<item>Each of those elements should contain an identifier such as
                                    &lt;persName role=”something”&gt; (but potentially orgName,
                                    name, etc.), places and dates and possibly an element describing
                                    the transmission.</item>
<item><gi>correspDesc</gi> will be a member of att.declarable so that
                                    each can be pointed at by a specific letter, in the case where
                                    you have a single document containing multiple letters.</item>
<item>The documentation will give clear guidelines on how to use the
                                    range of different options to represent correspondence in
                                    different configurations (single letter in a single TEI file,
                                    anthology in a single TEI document with <gi>group</gi>,
                                    etc.).</item>
<item>Council agrees in principle to the proposal (with changes
                                    suggested) and action on PWS to revise the draft and draw
                                    attention to council for final review.</item>
<item>The idea of a separate Module was rejecting feeling that this
                                    should just become part of the header module.</item>
<item>Documentation should go into the Header chapter at
                                    2.4.6</item>
<item>Elements and classes are to be defined in the header
                                    module</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: PWS to revise the draft correspDesc proposal
                                and draw attention to council for final review before implementing
                                as part of the TEI Guidelines.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Ticket Processing</head>
<p>Council broke into groups to discuss tickets and report back. Notes on
                        deliberations over tickets are at the bottom of this document organised by
                        colour (Amber / Green / Red) and type (FR / Bug). In this first day we got
                        to just before Group A’s Amber FR 516.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div><head>
                Tuesday 2014-11-18</head>
<div><head> id="mentoring"&gt;
                    Council Mentoring Programme
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>Suggestion of assigned mentors for new members to help new council
                            members gain familiarity with setup of TEI working practices and
                            technologies. </item>
<item>SB, MH, and LB volunteer <hi style="bold">Action: SB/MH/LB to offer
                                themselves as TEI mentors to members of Council and encourage new
                                members to ask them (or council) questions.</hi></item>
<item>JC noted that any general questions could be put on: <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-Council-FAQ">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-Council-FAQ</ref></item>
<item>PWS suggests direction should come from the Mentor to the mentoree,
                            i.e. not passively wait for questions but make sure the person
                            understands workflows etc.</item>
<item>MH suggests working through a straightforward ticket with new members,
                            and pointing to clear case study of ticket done correctly.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: MH to post to council mailing list making
                                suggestions for mentorship programme</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: LB volunteers to mentor Stefan.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="JTEI"&gt;
                    JTEI Schema and authoring package
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>MH describes JTEI Schema and authoring package</item>
<item>Discussion over policy of adoption of customizations: under what
                            circumstances does the TEI Council adopt maintenance of customizations.
                            Should there be a council liaison to JTEI? General consensus that there
                            should be. <hi style="bold">Action: MH to act as JTEI liaison for now,
                                reporting on any major changes to JTEI Schema and authoring
                                package.</hi></item>
<item>Should the schema be adopted as an “official” customization, and
                            should the authoring package be integrated into the oxygen-tei plugin?
                            (MH)</item>
<item>Council agrees to adopt customization assuming JTEI continues to
                            support it and the authoring package. </item>
<item>Council thinks that it should only adopt things created by the TEI
                            Consortium (lite, tite, jTEI, TE-Simple all fit). </item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: MH to separate out anything that shouldn’t be
                                public in the JTEI Schema, merge in schematron constraints,
                                documentation, etc. and add to TEI Sourceforge Repository. Add JTEI
                                Authoring environment to the oxygen-tei framework.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="resp"&gt;
                    Global @resp and friends (MH, LB, HC)
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>Notes from sub-council working group are available at: <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Global_@resp_attribute">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Global_@resp_attribute</ref></item>
<item>Discussion concerning global @resp, global @cert, and possibility of
                            global @source</item>
<item>Choices for @resp seem to be:
    <list type="ordered">
<item>rename att.responsibility (including @cert)
                                    att.global.responsibility; make att.global inherit it</item>
<item><hi style="italic">Create new global attribute @respRef with
                                        enforcing with schematron that it must point to a respStmt
                                    </hi>[not popular]</item>
<item>Modify @resp to have schematron rule that it should point to a
                                    <gi>respStmt</gi> and warn when this isn’t the case</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>A majority of Council voted in favour of approach (a), and furthermore
                            to re-visit (c) in ~ 1 year. The chair abstained but his voice would
                            have not swayed Council from letting more attributes become global. We
                            will also change the prose and examples in the Guidelines to indicate
                            that best practice is to point from @resp to a <gi>respStmt</gi> or other
                            things inside <gi>titleStmt</gi>. <hi style="bold">Action: on MH to
                                implement @resp changes, and update prose and examples in Guidelines
                                to have @resp point to respStmt (etc.)</hi></item>
<item>We will separately address the @source proposal on the wiki page at a
                            later meeting. (HC)</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="LOCdating"&gt;
                    LOC date attrs (SB; see LOC draft standard)
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item><hi style="background(white)">See </hi><ref target="http://loc.gov/standards/datetime/pre-submission.html">LOC
                                draft standard</ref> (<ref target="http://loc.gov/standards/datetime/pre-submission.html">http://loc.gov/standards/datetime/pre-submission.html</ref>)</item>
<item>“<hi style="italic">This specification defines features to be supported
                                in a date/time string, features considered useful for a wide variety
                                of applications. It takes the form of a profile of / extension to
                                ISO 8601, the International Standard for the representation of dates
                                and times. ISO 8601 describes a large number of date/time formats.
                                On one hand some of these formats are redundant and/or not very
                                useful; to reduce the scope for error and the complexity of
                                software, it seems worthwhile to restrict the supported formats to a
                                smaller set. On the other hand, there are a number of date and time
                                format conventions in common use that are not included in ISO 8601;
                                it seems worthwhile to normalize these.</hi>“</item>
<item>SB draws attention of Council to this ISO 8601 extension for future
                            consideration.</item>
<item>Questions include: What it includes? What is its status? and can we
                            create a regex for it?</item>
<item>The date formats have a formal expression using BNF syntax in the
                            draft document. </item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: SB to inform council in future about
                                developments of this draft (LOC date attrs) e.g. if it might be
                                adopted by ISO or W3C etc.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                    ISO-TEI Workgroup on Speech Transcription </head>
<p>(LB; see <ref target="http://bit.ly/1jyZC37">http://bit.ly/1jyZC37</ref>
                        “final draft oct 2014″) recommends two new elements:</p>
<list type="unordered">
<item><gi>transcriptionDesc</gi> “describes the set of transcription
                            conventions used”; FC points out that the tag name evokes different
                            connotations with philologists; maybe think of changing the name or make
                            it work genericly</item>
<item><gi>annotatedU</gi> “groups an utterance with the annotation layers
                            associated with it”</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: LB to create tickets for the 2 new
                                elements</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: ALL to read the draft (link above) and be
                                ready to comment on it at next conference call (or soon
                                thereafter)</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="github"&gt;
                    XSLT Stylesheets on Github
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>Council reiterated that they were not moving Guidelines development to
                            GitHub but had generally finished moving any associated software
                            development to GitHub. However, we need to specify what part of the
                            Stylesheets are under maintenance of the TEI Council. <hi style="bold">Action: JC to create a proposal listing those parts which are
                                required for generation of the TEI products (Guidelines, schemas
                                etc.)</hi></item>
<item>We have added a label to GitHub so issues can be labelled
                            “CouncilResponsibility”.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: JC to add each council member as a member of a
                                team with admin powers</hi> [Done]</item>
<item>Set up best practice guidelines for working with the GitHub repo(s)
                            and SVN repo and use them in the same way.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: PWS/MH to update SVN Documentation and include
                                information concerning GitHub</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Ticket Processing</head>
<p>Council initially discussed remaining tickets in plenary that were discussed
                        by groups on the previous day, starting at Group A’s Amber FR 516. Ending at
                        C 384.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Happy Birthday Hugh Cayless</head>
<p>Council sang Happy Birthday, slightly out of tune, to HC. Happy Birthday
                        Hugh! Later that evening at supper at a colleague of Hugh’s house, a cake
                        mysteriously appeared with &lt;hugh/&gt; element on it because Council
                        informed the host in advance that it was Hugh’s birthday.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div><head>
                Wednesday 2014-11-19</head>
<div><head> id="TweetChat"&gt;
                    Tweet Chat
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>TEI-C Tweet Chat from the Libraries SIG. starts at 10AM Duke
                            time</item>
<item>Council participated productively in the Tweetchat while undertaking
                            other discussions.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="TEIchecker"&gt;
                    TEI Validation/Checker Service (PWS)
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>Formally specify what a TEI conformant document is?<list type="unordered">
<item>there was some controversy about this and also about whether
                                    the validator should be checking for conformance or validating
                                    or profiling.</item>
<item>JC: Notes that true conformance checking is more than
                                    validating and probably impossible to programmatically determine
                                    since it involves proper adherence to the prose based abstract
                                    model.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>A service for non-TEI people to get details of the TEI document</item>
<item>Not just a question of validation against tei_all. </item>
<item>PWS describes infrastructure of the checker and types of validation it
                            does.</item>
<item>JC notes the potential relationship to the ‘performance indicators’ of
                            TEI Simple. Possibility to have it work inside teh oxygen-tei framework
                            as well?</item>
<item>Consensus favourable about TEI-C hosting such a service, though some
                            uncertainty about its useability.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: PWS to return to Council mailing list with
                                call for testing or suggestions on improvement for a TEI Checker web
                                service in the next few weeks, and Council to respond with suggested
                                improvements.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="critapp"&gt;
                    Critical Apparatus proposal update (HC)
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item><ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/10R5FfpvCh9v2c2zeG1hgYMcyuT8o-PfHiaWYVrLf56k/edit">https://docs.google.com/document/d/10R5FfpvCh9v2c2zeG1hgYMcyuT8o-PfHiaWYVrLf56k/edit</ref></item>
<item>Council discussed the document.</item>
<item>HC will produce an experimental ODD and a redraft of the document for
                            further discussion</item>
<item>The MS-SIG plans to spawn a working group to work on drafting a
                            thoroughly revised Critical Apparatus chapter of the TEI Guidelines. </item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: HC to produce an updated Critical Apparatus
                                ODD and redraft document for Council discussion.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="techpres"&gt;
                    Technical Presentations On TEI Infrastructure (Various)
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>JC presents on the mechanics of OxGarage using a presentation designed
                            for teaching other things: <ref target="http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/Talks/2014-11-warsaw/talk-tc-oxgarage.pdf">http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/Talks/2014-11-warsaw/talk-tc-oxgarage.pdf</ref></item>
<item>MH presents on the nature of the teitoX stylesheets and how parameters
                            are passed through them to underlying xslt via ant. This presentation
                            traced a very simple transformation (teitotxt) through its initiation at
                            the command line to transformtei, to ant, and to Saxon. Then he
                            demonstrated how a single parameter finds its way through the process,
                            acquiring a couple of different names on the way.<lb/><ref target="http://hcmc.uvic.ca/people/martin/tei/anatomy_of_a_transformation.pdf">http://hcmc.uvic.ca/people/martin/tei/anatomy_of_a_transformation.pdf</ref></item>
<item>HC presents on the use of git/github for forking and doing a major bit
                            of work for the Guidelines. git-svn used.</item>
<item>SB presents on tracking down extract-isosch.xsl and where it gets its
                            parameters, and how Schemtron is extracted, and how deprecation gets
                            built. This includes mentioning that we do not (and perhaps cannot?)
                            build the @context for a <gi>constraint</gi> (that does not itself
                            already have an @context) inside an <gi>attDef</gi> inside a
                            <gi>classSpec</gi> properly.</item>
<item>Consensus was that having some short technical infrastructure
                            presentations was a positive thing.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: on JC, MH, HC, SB consider wherever possible
                                writing additional documentation, blog posts, or similar on the
                                technical aspects presented, and notify council or
                            TEI-L.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="WednesdayTickets"&gt;
                    Ticket Processing
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>Council reviewed a number of specific and difficult tickets to finish
                            the morning. After lunch several members of Council adjourned to the
                            hotel to work on tickets, discuss implementation options, and depart for
                            flights home.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="Thanks"&gt;
                    Thanks
                    </head><list type="unordered">
<item>JC: Thanked all members in person and remote who participated, and
                            especially HC for being the local organiser. JC reminded council members
                            to look over draft minutes and he would edit them slightly and post to
                            the TEI-C website. Also <hi style="bold">Action: On ALL to look at
                                tickets assigned to them and update them with latest status, and
                                implement where possible.</hi></item>
</list>
</div></div>
<div><head>
                Tickets </head>
<p>Remit: Break into groups, discuss ticket, come to decision (implement, reject,
                    further discussion) or summarise any problems with implementing (why are we
                    waiting) and what can be done about it. If trivial feel free to implement
                    immediately.</p>
<div><head>
                    Amber Feature Requests</head>
<p>See <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberFR">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberFR</ref> for an up-to-date list of
                        Amber Feature Requests.<lb/>Groups:</p>
<p>A = HC, SB, FC</p>
<p>B= LB, PFS, EM</p>
<p>C= PWS, MH, JC</p>
<table>
<row>
<cell>GRP</cell>
<cell>#</cell>
<cell>Summary</cell>
<cell>Owner</cell>
<cell>Creator</cell>
<cell>Created</cell>
<cell>Updated</cell>
<cell>COUNCIL NOTES</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/534/">534</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/534/">add <gi>space</gi> to att.typed</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Wout Dillen</cell>
<cell>2 days ago</cell>
<cell>2 days ago</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Closed-fixed by SB</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/533/">533</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/533/">Add profileDesc as optional child biblFull</ref></cell>
<cell>HC</cell>
<cell>Laurent Romary</cell>
<cell>2 days ago</cell>
<cell>2 days ago</cell>
<cell>add queries to ticket (HC); <hi style="bold">assigned to
                                HC</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/532/">532</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/532/">tag major xslt releases so specific versions can be
                                    identified</ref></cell>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>Elli Mylonas</cell>
<cell>2014-10-31</cell>
<cell>2014-11-07</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Council agrees, there should be discrete
                                    identifiable releases that projects like EpiDoc and our own
                                    Guidelines can refer to.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/531/">531</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/531/">New element for secluded text</ref></cell>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>2014-10-17</cell>
<cell>2014-10-18</cell>
<cell>is this too rare? [LB] Are there alternative generic means to mark
                                a span of displaced text as being of uncertain original placement?
                                [PFS] Also, if accepted, the element name “<gi>secl</gi>” is a
                                non-starter (LB). <gi>misplaced</gi>? <hi style="bold">Council agrees
                                    <gi>setAside</gi> Green, assign to HC to come up with a content
                                    model and example(s).</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/530/">530</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/530/">a new ODD element for pointing at datatypes</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>2014-10-06</cell>
<cell>2014-10-06</cell>
<cell>note in ticket. Yes; <hi style="bold">Council agrees, assigned to
                                    LB</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/529/">529</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/529/">A method for marking a feature as “beta” in the
                                    Guidelines</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-10-05</cell>
<cell>2014-10-05</cell>
<cell>Council believes beta features should never make it into a
                                release, so this feature is not required. Close the ticket
                                won’t-fix. <hi style="bold">Action on HC/MH/SB to document different
                                    ways to make/build proposals.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/528/">528</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/528/">TEI Vault page has no info on recent releases</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-09-22</cell>
<cell>2014-09-22</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Done. Closed the ticket.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/527/">527</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/527/">Replace current eXist for Roma with updated
                                version</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-09-18</cell>
<cell>2014-09-19</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Make Green; Assign to PWS.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/526/">526</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/526/">Create a Jenkins job for building oxygen-tei</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-09-18</cell>
<cell>2014-09-18</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Make Green; Assign to MH.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/525/">525</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/525/">translated from</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Fxp33</cell>
<cell>2014-09-14</cell>
<cell>2014-09-14</cell>
<cell> Group suggests that Council take no action until requestor
                                re-formulates the request.<hi style="bold">Agreed</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/524/">524</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/524/">assign <gi>summary</gi> to a content model like
                                noteLike</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Torsten Schassan</cell>
<cell>2014-09-01</cell>
<cell>2014-09-01</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">has already been fixed (on 2014-06-30 in r12920 by
                                    Stephanie). Ticket closed.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/523/">523</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/523/">Allow @notation in <gi>pVar</gi> element</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Jack Bowers</cell>
<cell>2014-08-17</cell>
<cell>2014-08-17</cell>
<cell>SB to ask LR; <hi style="bold">Assigned to SB.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/522/">522</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/522/">Create att.global.styling for @rend, @rendition, and
                                    @style</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-07-31</cell>
<cell>2014-09-25</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">go for it; Agreed.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/521/">521</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/521/">Allow &lt;lem/​&gt; to Contain Chunk-Level Markup</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Gregor Middell</cell>
<cell>2014-07-31</cell>
<cell>2014-08-26</cell>
<cell>this is a major change, fraught with possible unintended
                                consequences, but it’s important and useful and many people want
                                it.; <hi style="bold">Council: More thought needed assign to HC to
                                    look at with text critical proposals.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/520/">520</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/520/">@selector attribute for the `<gi>rendition</gi>`
                                element</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-07-15</cell>
<cell>2014-07-15</cell>
<cell>At first glance, a clever way to smuggle an entire CSS (+xpath)
                                style sheet (perh for display really rather than rendition proper)
                                into the TEI. Reproduces existing functionality (by reversing the
                                direction of the reference between element and style), but adds
                                considerable efficiency. [PFS] The additional suggestion of
                                selectorScheme may be pushing things too far [LB]. What is the
                                default selectorScheme if none is specified? CSS? [pfs] How to
                                handle local overrides (or cumulative additions?) Or other conflicts
                                between style selected at the global level and style selected at the
                                level of the individual element instance. *Eligible for group
                                discussion.* Alternatively, omit the xpath option, but include only
                                @selector (defined as CSS); leave addition of an xpath @match
                                attribute to possible later addition if needed. <hi style="bold">Assigned to MH to follow up, especially with regard to the
                                    tagusage/@render mechanism.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/519/">519</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/519/">precision should be a member of att.datable*</ref></cell>
<cell>MH</cell>
<cell>Frederik</cell>
<cell>2014-07-10</cell>
<cell>2014-07-10</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Make Green, assign to MH</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/518/">518</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/518/">state (or model.*StateLike) should contain
                                precision</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Frederik</cell>
<cell>2014-07-10</cell>
<cell>2014-07-10</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Make green, assign to PWS</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/517/">517</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/517/">transcription of quranic “end of ayah”-sign</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Tobias J. Jocham</cell>
<cell>2014-07-07</cell>
<cell>2014-07-07</cell>
<cell>Not Sure. Lou made good suggestions about ways to answer the
                                requirement on the ticket. <hi style="bold">Assigned to
                                EM</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/516/">516</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/516/">tagsDecl needs to be explicit as to whether it documents all
                                    tags present in a document</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Lou Burnard</cell>
<cell>2014-07-02</cell>
<cell>2014-07-02</cell>
<cell>Subgroup thinks implementing w/ default partial=false makes sense;
                                bringbefore whole Council; <hi style="bold">Council dislikes the
                                    default value, but otherwise supports ticket to create a
                                    @partial attribute. Assigning to SB, GREEN.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/515/">515</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/515/">re-think model.global’s membership and use in
                                    <gi>line</gi></ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>2014-07-02</cell>
<cell>2014-07-02</cell>
<cell>We can’t find any minutes on how or whether we decided to
                                implement 485, the ticket this was created in response to. (MH
                                suggests signalling the change between types of transcription in the
                                chapter.) <hi style="bold">Assigned to LB.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/511/">511</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/511/">New element <gi>transcriptionDesc</gi> as a possible child of
                                    <gi>encodingDesc</gi></ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Thomas Schmidt</cell>
<cell>2014-06-26</cell>
<cell>2014-07-01</cell>
<cell>Ticket status unchanged: still waiting on spoken language
                                proposal. <hi style="bold">Assign to MH; set to
                                open-later.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/510/">510</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/510/">add a correspondence module and elements for capturing
                                    correspondence specific meta data</ref></cell>
<cell>Peter Stadler</cell>
<cell>Peter Stadler</cell>
<cell>2014-06-20</cell>
<cell>2014-07-01</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">PWS to make note on ticket</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/507/">507</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/507/">create generic policy for the TEI on integration of external
                                    standards</ref></cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2014-05-10</cell>
<cell>2014-07-01</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Agreed; kick syd.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/">505</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/">Redefine <gi>msPart</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>Stefanie Gehrke</cell>
<cell>Caroline T. Schroeder</cell>
<cell>2014-04-29</cell>
<cell>2014-07-01</cell>
<cell>Stefanie sent a <ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit?usp=sharing">document</ref> to PWS; <hi style="bold">Action: All Council need
                                    to read document</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/504/">504</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/504/">Replace @active and @passive on relation with @from and
                                    @to</ref></cell>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>2014-04-21</cell>
<cell>2014-08-16</cell>
<cell>HC is in discussion with SR LB. This ticket is in process, but
                                nothing to do now. <hi style="bold">HC to summarize current
                                    discussion on ticket.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/501/">501</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/501/">Add notion of model.resourceLike to description of
                                    teiHeader</ref></cell>
<cell>Peter Stadler</cell>
<cell>Peter Stadler</cell>
<cell>2014-03-17</cell>
<cell>2014-03-18</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Agreed: PWS goes on to identify those locations
                                    and puts them in the ticket. Asks council to look and then fixes
                                    them. </hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/498/">498</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/498/">Permit new <gi>persona</gi> as a child of
                                <gi>person</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>Lou Burnard</cell>
<cell>David J Birnbaum</cell>
<cell>2014-02-22</cell>
<cell>2014-07-01</cell>
<cell>Last action was to ask DJB to provide a proposal for a persona
                                element. Has this been done? Any idea on the status? <hi style="bold">LB to follow up.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/496/">496</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/496/">`<gi>taxonomy</gi>` should be allowed as a child of
                                    `<gi>category</gi>`</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-01-31</cell>
<cell>2014-08-16</cell>
<cell>Was awaiting better example from MH. Has provided one, will
                                provide one more. <hi style="bold">Assign to MH.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/492/">492</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/492/">Allow bibl inside app</ref></cell>
<cell>James Cummings</cell>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>2014-01-16</cell>
<cell>2014-09-04</cell>
<cell>Action recommended looks good: create model.appPart. <hi style="bold">Council: make green and leave as assigned (to
                                    JC).</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/490/">490</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/492/">un-bundle @cert and @resp</ref></cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>2013-12-18</cell>
<cell>2014-07-02</cell>
<cell>Closed this; it’s obviated by earlier decisions about @resp
                                etc.</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/489/">489</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/489/">Make teiHeader/​@type explicitly map to dc:type by using terms
                                    from DCMI</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Lou Burnard</cell>
<cell>2013-12-16</cell>
<cell>2014-05-19</cell>
<cell>Already assigned.; Recommendation: Close ticket. Add new ticket
                                for deprecation of @type on header <hi style="bold">Action on PFS to
                                    open ticket to deprecate @type on header, but then just do
                                    it.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/486/">486</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/486/">deprecating members of a content model</ref></cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2013-12-08</cell>
<cell>2014-07-01</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Make GREEN, assign others to SB to implement in
                                    schematron</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/485/">485</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/485/">add element rs as member of model.linePart</ref></cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>Oliver Gasperlin</cell>
<cell>2013-11-26</cell>
<cell>2014-05-19</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Closed</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">482</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">The term strikes back – terminology chapter</ref></cell>
<cell>Lou Burnard</cell>
<cell>Laurent Romary</cell>
<cell>2013-11-06</cell>
<cell>2014-08-26</cell>
<cell>Still waiting on a formal proposal. <hi style="bold">Action on FC
                                    to poke LR</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/480/">480</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/480/">Adding the @hand attribute to all (or most) text-containing
                                    elements</ref></cell>
<cell>Lou Burnard</cell>
<cell>Ville Marttila</cell>
<cell>2013-10-29</cell>
<cell>2014-10-25</cell>
<cell>this is very messy, needs to be discussed and probably broken out
                                into several discrete proposals: 1. @hand is used in many ways 2.
                                proposer wants to add it to more elements; <hi style="bold">LB to
                                    prod.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/479/">479</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/479/">Adding the @place attribute to <gi>head</gi> and
                                    <gi>seg</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>Ville Marttila</cell>
<cell>2013-10-29</cell>
<cell>2014-08-26</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">SR to prod Ville</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/459/">459</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/459/">warn user of dropped constructs</ref></cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>2013-06-17</cell>
<cell>2013-12-08</cell>
<cell>
<p>Largely handled by deprecation. Might relate to ‘validation
                                    service’ issue? Close?<hi style="bold">Council: Make Pending, Nag
                                        SB.</hi></p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/457/">457</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/457/">make explicit difference between tagUsage and ODD
                                    documentation</ref></cell>
<cell>Lou Burnard</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2013-05-24</cell>
<cell>2014-06-06</cell>
<cell>This should go to a Council discussion of Kevin’s four questions.
                                Recommend doing this tomorrow morning, led by Lou, who has the
                                ticket, because tagUsage is fresh in our minds. … ended up talking
                                about it anyway. <hi style="bold">Council:LB to follow
                                up.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/453/">453</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/453/">a place for metadata that you can’t fit into existing header
                                    elements</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2013-05-13</cell>
<cell>2014-01-05</cell>
<cell>
<p>Previous action (undone) from 2013 f2f: “Action: MH will offer
                                    DC examples and PS will offer MARC examples. LB will pull them
                                    together into some text to be inserted into the Guidelines.
                                    Given this, Council will reconsider the feature request and
                                    whether to create the wrapper element.” Sub-group thinks this
                                    should be GREEN and implenteted: <gi>externalMetadata</gi> as a
                                    member of model.teiHeaderPart; <hi style="bold">Council: Assign
                                        to SB / GREEN pending name. exoData xenoData</hi></p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/443/">443</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/443/">@resp should be a member of att.global</ref></cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2013-03-11</cell>
<cell>3 days ago</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Already decided.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/422/">422</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/422/">teitoX: support passing configuration to saxon</ref></cell>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>Louis-Dominique Dubeau</cell>
<cell>2013-01-10</cell>
<cell>2013-11-13</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">SR to report on status</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/387/">387</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/387/">allow <gi>head</gi> in more places in div*, table, and
                                    list</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2012-09-19</cell>
<cell>2013-11-13</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">solved with addition of trailer to
                                    list/table/etc.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/384/">384</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/384/">free-standing attributes -&gt; class</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>2012-09-15</cell>
<cell>2014-05-28</cell>
<cell>Work for @type at least has been queued up by Rebecca in the
                                linked Google Doc. One question is how we should indicate suggested
                                values if @type is moved to att.typed. Council needs to make a plan
                                to implement this. <hi style="bold">Council: PFS to report on
                                    this.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/378/">378</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/378/">Encoding of Standoff annotations</ref></cell>
<cell>Piotr Banski</cell>
<cell>Javier Pose</cell>
<cell>2012-08-26</cell>
<cell>2014-08-20</cell>
<cell>
<p>We have no idea what the status of this is. The last artifact
                                    we have is <ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QqJK08sff4ral0tadmNXs0j0VN5Yp-O7_mIsv2f-WjQ/edit#heading=h.odkayr64o4dg">the minutes of the WG meeting in Berlin</ref>  from PWS. </p>
<p><hi style="bold">We need a formal proposal in order to
                                        proceed.</hi></p>
</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/360/">360</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/360/">New attribute @keepHyphen</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Martin de la Iglesia</cell>
<cell>2012-05-03</cell>
<cell>2013-11-11</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Prod PFS to provide an example.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/326/">326</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/326/">an <gi>object</gi> element</ref></cell>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>2011-10-14</cell>
<cell>2014-08-18</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">SR to poke SIG</hi></cell>
</row>
</table>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Amber Bugs</head>
<p>See <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberBugs"><hi style="underline color(1155cc)">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilAmberBugs</hi></ref> for an up-to-date
                        list of Amber Bugs.</p>
<table>
<row>
<cell>GRP</cell>
<cell>#</cell>
<cell>Summary</cell>
<cell>Owner</cell>
<cell>Creator</cell>
<cell>Created</cell>
<cell>Updated</cell>
<cell>COUNCIL NOTES</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/699/">699</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/699/">self-reference in macro.anyXML</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Jens Østergaard Petersen</cell>
<cell>2014-11-05</cell>
<cell>2014-11-05</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">CLOSED. not a bug. SR answered.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/697/">697</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/697/">sequence of
                                    declaration info is lost when making an ODD</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Lou Burnard</cell>
<cell>2014-10-31</cell>
<cell>2014-11-03</cell>
<cell>MH &amp; SB to sort out before dinner and suggest a plan of
                                action… <hi style="bold">Discussed and resolved over
                                dinner.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/696/">696</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/696/">macro.paraContent doesn’t contain l</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>2014-10-18</cell>
<cell>2014-10-19</cell>
<cell>This ticket appears to be submitted only the basis of symmetry,
                                not a real use-case, so although it might be logical, we can reject
                                it unless or until there’s a real demonstrated need. Especially
                                since it brings up again the controversial addition of LG to P. <hi style="bold">Closed.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/695/">695</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/695/">distributed
                                    spec files point at wrong schema location</ref></cell>
<cell>Peter Stadler</cell>
<cell>Peter Stadler</cell>
<cell>2014-10-12</cell>
<cell>2014-10-12</cell>
<cell>Proposal: Needs adding to the release process to replace to
                                relative or absolute location of schema: <hi style="bold">PS/MH to
                                    investigate and report back on correct solution.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/693/">693</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/693/">allocation
                                    of elements to module transcr</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>2014-09-26</cell>
<cell>2014-09-26</cell>
<cell>module fragmentation, <hi style="bold">close-wont-fix.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/692/">692</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/692/">Pointing
                                    between terms and glosses</ref></cell>
<cell/>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-09-23</cell>
<cell>2014-09-24</cell>
<cell>Add at least an extra example other way around using @ref; <hi style="bold">Assign to LB</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/691/">691</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/691/">Incorrect
                                    note in model.phrase</ref></cell>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>2014-09-23</cell>
<cell>2014-09-23</cell>
<cell>fix and close unless someone speaks up now; <hi style="bold">HC to
                                    implement</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/690/">690</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/690/">Misplaced
                                    periods after examples</ref></cell>
<cell>MH</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-09-16</cell>
<cell>2014-09-16</cell>
<cell>We don’t know where these are, but by all means, let’s fix them.;
                                    <hi style="bold">MH to fix.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/688/">688</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/688/">TEILite
                                    `<gi>editorialDecl</gi>` has bad example and weird content
                                    model</ref></cell>
<cell>MH</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-09-09</cell>
<cell>2014-09-11</cell>
<cell>Martin says it’s a corrigible error. <hi style="bold">Assign to MH,
                                    make green</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/687/">687</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/687/">TEILite has
                                    @calendar, but no `<gi>calendar</gi>` element it can point
                                    to</ref></cell>
<cell>LB</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-09-08</cell>
<cell>2014-09-08</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Assign to LB</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/686/">686</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/686/">TEILIte
                                    example shows cit/​quote, but quote is not allowed</ref></cell>
<cell>LB</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-09-08</cell>
<cell>2014-09-08</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Assign to LB</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/684/">684</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/684/">multiple
                                    lems in an app</ref></cell>
<cell>HC</cell>
<cell>Hugh A. Cayless</cell>
<cell>2014-09-02</cell>
<cell>2014-09-08</cell>
<cell>Modify note; <hi style="bold">Assign to HC.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/683/">683</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/683/">Wording for
                                    `<gi>add</gi>` and `<gi>del</gi>` needs to be tightened
                                up</ref></cell>
<cell>MH</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-08-25</cell>
<cell>2014-08-25</cell>
<cell>Should clarify description of supplied, note on add, and prose.
                                    <hi style="bold">Assign to MH</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/681/">681</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/681/">Datatype
                                    change for att.typed</ref></cell>
<cell>PWS</cell>
<cell>Greg Murray</cell>
<cell>2014-08-12</cell>
<cell>2014-08-12</cell>
<cell>Change data.enumerated to data.word? (Why is valItem/@ident
                                    data.text?!;<hi style="bold">Assign to PWS</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/675/">675</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/675/">org should
                                    allow model.global</ref></cell>
<cell>Fabio Ciotti</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-06-09</cell>
<cell>2014-06-30</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">Prod FC to report to Council, or just
                                    implement.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/647/">647</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/647/">data.enumerated != valItem/​@ident</ref></cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>2014-02-25</cell>
<cell>2014-02-26</cell>
<cell>should be data.name. <hi style="bold">SB to implement</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/630/">630</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/630/">use of
                                    <gi>listRef</gi> in specs</ref></cell>
<cell>Lou Burnard</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2013-12-28</cell>
<cell>2014-05-19</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">LB to implement.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/581/">581</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/581/">`<gi>attRef</gi>` needs better documentation</ref></cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2013-06-24</cell>
<cell>2014-09-09</cell>
<cell>LB SB MH this one is hard to understand, pls explain; <hi style="bold">MH to report to council</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/563/">563</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/563/">inconsistent
                                    encoding of citations to sources of examples</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2013-04-12</cell>
<cell>2014-05-30</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">JC to prod KH to comment.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/548/">548</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/548/">use of modal
                                    verbs in Guidelines</ref></cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2013-04-08</cell>
<cell>2014-05-10</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">JC to chase up</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/216/">216</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/216/">half title
                                    pages in TEI Tite</ref></cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2010-08-09</cell>
<cell>2014-06-30</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">SB to chase up</hi></cell>
</row>
</table>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Green Feature Requests</head>
<p>See <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenFR">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenFR</ref> for an up-to-date list of
                        Green Feature Requests</p>
<table>
<row>
<cell>GRP</cell>
<cell>#</cell>
<cell>Summary</cell>
<cell>Owner</cell>
<cell>Creator</cell>
<cell>Created</cell>
<cell>Updated</cell>
<cell>COUNCIL NOTES</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/383/">383</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/383/">where to put <gi>idno</gi> within
                                <gi>biblStruct</gi>?</ref></cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2012-09-08</cell>
<cell>2014-09-11</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">SB to do</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/377/">377</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/377/">retaining punctuation marks in the text of a TEI
                                document</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2012-08-12</cell>
<cell>2014-05-28</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">PFS to do</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/298/">298</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/298/">att.editLike should not bring att.dimensions &amp;
                                    att.ranging</ref></cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>BODARD Gabriel</cell>
<cell>2011-04-22</cell>
<cell>2013-11-28</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">MH to do</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/264/">264</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/264/">altIdentifier in msPart</ref></cell>
<cell>James Cummings</cell>
<cell>Torsten Schassan</cell>
<cell>2010-11-22</cell>
<cell>2013-11-12</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">JC to do</hi></cell>
</row>
</table>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Green Bugs</head>
<p>See <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenBugs">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilGreenBugs</ref> for an up-to-date list of
                        Green Bugs</p>
<table>
<row>
<cell>GRP</cell>
<cell>#</cell>
<cell>Summary</cell>
<cell>Owner</cell>
<cell>Creator</cell>
<cell>Created</cell>
<cell>Updated</cell>
<cell>COUNCIL NOTES</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/670/">670</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/670/">Attribute
                                    definitions are slightly inconsistent</ref></cell>
<cell>Stefanie Gehrke</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-05-22</cell>
<cell>2014-08-27</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">(done)</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/634/">634</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/634/">“TEI-conformable” is meaningless</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2014-01-08</cell>
<cell>2014-06-30</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">PFS to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/627/">627</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/627/">Encoding
                                    example from Drama chapter uses @corresp instead of
                                @synch</ref></cell>
<cell>Fabio Ciotti</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2013-12-20</cell>
<cell>2014-06-30</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">FC to do</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/621/">621</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/621/">@expand
                                    example in att.lexicographic is incorrect.</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>James Cummings</cell>
<cell>2013-11-13</cell>
<cell>2014-09-02</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">PFS to do</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/620/">620</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/620/">which part
                                    of TEI Guidelines takes precedence</ref></cell>
<cell>Fabio Ciotti</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2013-11-11</cell>
<cell>2014-06-30</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">FC to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/616/">616</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/616/"><gi>cit</gi>
                                    and <gi>quote</gi> not allowed within
                                <gi>summary</gi></ref></cell>
<cell>Stefanie Gehrke</cell>
<cell>Ville Marttila</cell>
<cell>2013-10-29</cell>
<cell>2014-09-19</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">(done)</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/558/">558</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/558/">name/​orgName</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Jens Østergaard Petersen</cell>
<cell>2013-04-09</cell>
<cell>2013-11-19</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">PFS to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/528/">528</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/528/">consistency
                                    in “the Guidelines” vs. “these Guidelines”</ref></cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2013-02-02</cell>
<cell>2013-11-12</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">JC to prod</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/442/">442</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/442/">update ODD
                                    documentation on www.tei-c.org and in Guidelines</ref></cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2012-09-20</cell>
<cell>2014-10-03</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">MH to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/441/">441</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/441/">fDecl
                                    doesn’t allow att.datcat yet</ref></cell>
<cell>Piotr Banski</cell>
<cell>Menzo Windhouwer</cell>
<cell>2012-09-20</cell>
<cell>2013-10-10</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">JC to prod</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>X</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/418/">418</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/418/">Names and
                                    Dates chapter does not mention calendar</ref></cell>
<cell>James Cummings</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2012-07-06</cell>
<cell>2012-08-09</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">CLOSED</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/405/">405</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/405/">XPointer
                                    schemes may not nest, but see ch. 16</ref></cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>Piotr Banski</cell>
<cell>2012-05-02</cell>
<cell>2013-11-13</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">SB to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/401/">401</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/401/">Most
                                    attributes lack good examples</ref></cell>
<cell>Paul Schaffner</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2012-04-23</cell>
<cell>2014-05-28</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">PFS to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/312/">312</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/312/">i18n
                                    revision due</ref></cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>2011-11-02</cell>
<cell>2014-10-03</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">MH to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/288/">288</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/288/">deprecate
                                    use of gram except as a child of gramGrp</ref></cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2011-07-23</cell>
<cell>2013-12-08</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">SB to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/281/">281</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/281/">value of
                                    date@when</ref></cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2011-05-25</cell>
<cell>2014-08-14</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">JC to prod</hi></cell>
</row>
</table>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Red Feature Requests</head>
<p>See <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilRedFR"><hi style="underline color(1155cc)">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilRedFR</hi></ref> for an up-to-date
                        list of Red FR</p>
<table>
<row>
<cell>GRP</cell>
<cell>#</cell>
<cell>Summary</cell>
<cell>Owner</cell>
<cell>Creator</cell>
<cell>Created</cell>
<cell>Updated</cell>
<cell>COUNCIL NOTES</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/470/">470</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/470/">att.measurement and att.dimensions overlap</ref></cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>Lou Burnard</cell>
<cell>2013-08-25</cell>
<cell>2014-09-09</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">MH to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/464/">464</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/464/">Need for some way to test the oxygen-tei package before
                                    release</ref></cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>Martin Holmes</cell>
<cell>2013-07-05</cell>
<cell>2014-07-02</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">MH to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/366/">366</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/366/">rationalize content models of org and place (etc)</ref></cell>
<cell>James Cummings</cell>
<cell>BODARD Gabriel</cell>
<cell>2012-06-19</cell>
<cell>2014-01-26</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">JC to report</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/324/">324</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/324/">Allow certainty etc. inside milestoneLike elements</ref></cell>
<cell>BODARD Gabriel</cell>
<cell>BODARD Gabriel</cell>
<cell>2011-09-30</cell>
<cell>2012-06-03</cell>
<cell>Let’s discuss briefly, but we are inclined to close it and not do
                                anything: <hi style="bold">Not discussed, comments to be put on
                                    ticket, or closed.</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>C</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/292/">292</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/292/">add SourceForge feeds to
                                    http:/​/​www.tei-c.org/​Activities/​</ref></cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>Kevin Hawkins</cell>
<cell>2011-04-13</cell>
<cell>2013-11-13</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">JC to prod</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/289/">289</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/289/">att.canonical for model.persTraitLike</ref></cell>
<cell>James Cummings</cell>
<cell>James Cummings</cell>
<cell>2011-04-11</cell>
<cell>2013-11-09</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">JC to report</hi></cell>
</row>
</table>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Red Bugs</head>
<p>See <ref target="http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilRedBugs">http://tinyurl.com/teiCouncilRedBugs</ref> for an up-to-date list of
                        Red Bugs</p>
<table>
<row>
<cell>GRP</cell>
<cell>#</cell>
<cell>Summary</cell>
<cell>Owner</cell>
<cell>Creator</cell>
<cell>Created</cell>
<cell>Updated</cell>
<cell>COUNCIL NOTES</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/666/">666</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/666/">video html
                                    to tei</ref></cell>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>javad</cell>
<cell>2014-04-27</cell>
<cell>2014-08-14</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">SR to close</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/292/">292</ref></cell>
<cell><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/292/">GLs say add
                                    ‘ns’ decl, but roma objects</ref></cell>
<cell>Sebastian Rahtz</cell>
<cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
<cell>2011-08-20</cell>
<cell>2013-11-10</cell>
<cell><hi style="bold">SR to close</hi></cell>
</row>
</table>
</div></div>
	</div><!-- .entry-content -->
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>