<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2014-12"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2014-12" when="2014-12-05">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>5 December 2014</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM064</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21920</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		<!-- <div class="teiheader"><filedesc><titlestmt><title><date when="2014-12-05">5 December 2014</date></title><author>TEI Technical Council</author><respstmt><resp>Initial Encoding</resp><name>James Cummings</name></respstmt></titlestmt><editionstmt><edition><date when="2014-12-05">5 December 2014 </date></edition></editionstmt><publicationstmt>
<p>Freely available under a CC+By licence</p>
</publicationstmt><sourcedesc><p>Converted from a Google Doc that all Council Members edited during the meeting.</p>
<p>            </sourcedesc></filedesc></div> -->
<p><hi style="bold">Participants: </hi>Syd Bauman (SB), Lou Burnard (LB), Hugh Cayless (HC), James Cummings (JC)
                (Chair), Martin Holmes (MH), Elli Mylonas (EM, 14:10Z), Paul F Schaffner (PFS), Peter W Stadler (PWS), Stefanie
                Gehrke (SG), Sebastian Rahtz (SR)</p>
<p><hi style="bold">Apologies:</hi> Fabio Ciotti (FC)</p>
<div><head>
                Actions</head>
<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold"> Action: LB to draft prose for correspDesc addtions to header chapter and report back to
                            Council </hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">PWS to report back on Standoff progress</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: All to read the msPart proposal and discuss them on the mailing list.
                        </hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on SG to badger everyone to do read msPart proposal.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on Council to discuss global @resp on the mailing list before Tuesday;</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold"> then MH will go ahead with implementation.</hi><hi style="bold">Action on PWS to fix a date by which the <gi>correspDesc</gi> proposal should be
                            implemented and report to the Council list.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on MH to report to Council within a month or so about oxygen-tei framework building
                            and next release</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on all mentors to document their experiences and what they learn on the wiki.
                        </hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on JC to officially introduce mentors to mentorees on Council. [DONE]
                        </hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on MH to post to Council list with a set of links to helpful documents. [DONE]
                        </hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: JC to prod Object working group again. [DONE]</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: JC to set up Council Chair elections, get a returning officer, etc. [DONE]</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on JC: to post a Doodle poll for the next conference within a week. [DONE]</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                Minutes of Raleigh Face to Face Meeting</head>
<p><ref target="/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm63.xml">http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm63.xml</ref></p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Review of Actions (See minutes at <ref target="/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm63.xml">Minutes from F2F</ref>) <list style="ul">
<item>JC reviews actions</item>
<item>LB gave an update on TEI-ODDS and Pure ODD development</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                CorrespDesc</head>
<p> PWS provided an update on <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/510/">correspDesc
                        ticket</ref><list style="ul">
<item>Specification of ODD proposal updated <ref target="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc/blob/master/doc/proposal.html">http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc/blob/master/doc/proposal.html</ref><ref target="https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc">https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc</ref> based on feedback from last Council
                            meeting. Decided not to allow nesting. Example use-cases have been collected and are available on
                            GitHub <ref target="https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc/tree/master/examples">https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc/tree/master/examples</ref>. Please all take
                            a look at the examples and the specification and make sure they’re in line with what we discussed at
                            Duke. <gi>correspDesc</gi> may be added to att.typed and <gi>correspAction</gi> to att.sortable. We
                            agree with this. The chapter prose needs to be added to the Header chapter; this should probably be
                            drafted by someone else, so that we can see if the result matches the intentions of the proposers.
                            There is some text in the current ODD proposal, but it needs to be reworked. LB is willing to try this
                            in the new year.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: LB to draft prose for correspDesc addtions to header chapter and report back
                                to Council</hi></item>
</list></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                Standoff</head>
<p>PWS provided an update on <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/378/">standoff proposal
                        ticket</ref><list style="ul">
<item>Nothing has happened recently; PWS tried to push the group to move forward, and has arranged a
                            conference call with Laurent Romary, who has some examples.</item>
<item>LaurentR has created a GitHub project. It’s just a stub right now.</item>
<item>This is very distinct from the <gi>xenoData</gi> proposal, and should not be confused with it.</item>
<item>SB points out there has been some traffic on the Council list about it, which we should all read. MH
                            comments this was very confusing.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">PWS to report back on Standoff progress</hi></item>
</list></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                redefining msPart</head>
<p> SG / PWS provided an update on <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/">redefining
                        msPart</ref> (SG / PWS)<list style="ul">
<item>SG and PWS have created a document, checked the prose of the Guidelines, and have proposed some
                            changes. A link to the proposal will be added to the ticket <ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit#heading=h.3tej6b6h331f">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit#</ref></item>
<item>SG has recently posted a ticket which arises out of this: <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/538/">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/538/</ref><lb/>This proposes fixing a bad example of a ‘composite’ MS.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action: All to read the msPart proposal and discuss them on the mailing list.
                            </hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on SG to badger everyone to do read msPart proposal.</hi></item>
</list></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                Global @resp</head>
<p>MH provided an update on <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/443/">global @resp</ref>;
                    detailed implementation plan is <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Global_@resp_attribute">on the
                        wiki</ref> for everyone to check through before it’s done (MH). <hi style="bold">Action on Council to
                        discuss it on the mailing list before Tuesday; then MH will go ahead with implementation.</hi> Minor bugs
                    or typos can just be reported directly to MH. DONE 2014-12-10.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                Next Release</head>
<p>Date of next release; release technician. <gi>correspDesc</gi> and global resp should be triggers for this. SR
                    thinks the former will take quite a while. <hi style="bold">Action on PWS to fix a date by which the
                        <gi>correspDesc</gi> proposal should be implemented and report to the Council list.</hi> Should be one of
                    the new members, so we have new eyes on the documentation. SR asks about oxygen-tei framework building. MH
                    will be looking at as part of the JTEI work. Will take at least as long as the addition of correspDesc. SB
                    doesn’t think this should be release-blocking, but we must not lose track of it. <hi style="bold">Action on MH
                        to report to Council within a month or so about oxygen-tei framework building and next release</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                Mentoring New Council Members</head>
<p>Mentoring new members (MH) MH been working with SG; LB agreed to work with Stefan; SB to work with Raffaele; </p>
<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">Action on all mentors to document their experiences and what they learn on the wiki.
                            </hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on JC to officially introduce mentors to mentorees on Council. </hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on MH to post to Council list with a set of links to helpful documents. DONE
                                2014-12-17.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                Object Working Group</head>
<p>JC noted that he had prodded the Object working group<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">Action: JC to prod Object working group again. [JC has prodded OyvindE and TorstenS;
                                no response yet]</hi></item>
</list></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                Election of Council Chair</head>
<p>HC had declared and LB is also willing to serve and will post to the mailing list announcing his candidacy. <hi style="bold">Action: JC to set up Council Chair elections, get a returning officer, etc. [DONE]</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                AOB</head>
<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">Action on JC: to post a Doodle poll for the next conference within a week. [DONE]</hi> We
                        could attempt to schedule the whole of the year.</item>
<item>Council thanked the departing members:<list style="ul">
<item>EM, SR</item>
</list></item>
 <item>There was much weeping.</item> 
</list>
</div>
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>