<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2014-05"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2014-05" when="2014-05-30">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>30 May 2014</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM059</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p><p>Converted from a google doc notes taken during meeting </p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21915</change><change who="#JC" when="2014-06-20">Belated TEI&#8217;ing.</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body>
		
<div><head>
                TEI Council Teleconference Minutes 2014-05-30</head>
<p>Present: James Cummings (JC – Chair), Syd Bauman (SB), Hugh Cayless (HC), Elli
                    Mylonas (EM), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Stefanie Gehrke (SG), Martin Holmes (MH),
                    Paul Schaffner (PFS), Peter Stadler (PWS), Lou Burnard (LB), Fabio Ciotti (FC –
                    late).</p>
<div><head>
                    Actions Arising</head>
<list style="ul">
<item><label>JC: </label> to send out joining instructions for Oxford
                            Face-to-Face</item>
<item><label>JC:</label> to tell Correspondence SIG that Council recommends
                            they look at the work of the CMC SIG to see what overlap there
                            is.</item>
<item><label>PWS: </label> to contact the Standoff WG people who were in
                            Berlin to see if they’re happy with what they did in Berlin, and whether
                            they are intending to create a formal proposal for Council to
                            consider.</item>
<item><label>JC: </label> to move forward on encouraging the object working
                            group.</item>
<item><label>HC: </label> to add a Latin example which will be more
                            generally accessible.</item>
<item><label>ALL: </label> send comments to council list on
                            text-directinality, final time.</item>
<item><label>ALL: </label> get on with completing the tickets you have
                            assigned to you.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Report on upcoming face-to-face (JC)</head>
<p>JC reported on the upcoming face to face. It’s basically all arranged.
                        Joining instructions email will go out soon about a week. Questions?</p>
<p>PFS: The basic timetable is Mon–Wed. Some people will leave at lunchtime on
                        Wed.</p>
<p>Email questions to JC.</p>
<p>An agenda will be posted soon. Please send any issues to JC.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Report on autumn face-to-face (HC)</head>
<p>HC: Dates are set: 2014-11-05/07 at Duke. That’s all that’s been arranged so
                        far. [Later discussion questioned whether it was possible to rearrange these
                        dates.] I have arranged meeting rooms, but haven’t addressed accommodation
                        yet. Emails will be sent out in the next few months regarding travel and
                        accommodation. We may rent a van to get people around. There are lots of
                        restaurants in the general area, but none within easy walking distance.</p>
</div>
<div>
<p>                    Report on TEI Simple (SR)</p>
<p>SR: Link: document on <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/blob/master/mini-simple.docx">Github</ref><lb/>The first proposal was made to the TEI Consortium,
                        which agreed to put in money if other funds were available. The Mellon
                        agreed to accept a grant application, and this has now gone in; the decision
                        will come in July, with the project to start in August if it successful. The
                        idea is to provide a very simple subset of TEI, especially aimed at
                        libraries, along with a processing model, which will require the development
                        of a language in which to express processing requirements, and a notation to
                        give a machine-readable encoding profile for a text. JC: So ODD will acquire
                        a facility to include processing rules? SR: Yes, it will be a way for a
                        project to formally declare e.g. “This element is to be displayed as a block
                        element, not an inline element.” LB: Will it also allow the specification
                        that a particular element will be ignored during output processing or
                        indexing? SR: Yes, that sort of thing is in scope. We haven’t done the work
                        yet. The first stage will be to develop a proposal for changes to ODD. JC:
                        Will there be involvement from people outside of TEI Simple, who will also
                        want to use these features? HC: Yes, EpiDoc would want to be involved. EM:
                        TAPAS would also be a good project to include, not only because of their
                        involvement with ODD, but because they have been trying to handle some of
                        the things this would enable. SR: Yes, this must be very consensual. One of
                        the things we want to spend money on will be a couple of workshops for
                        consultation. </p>
</div>
<div>
<p>                    Report on TEI Hackathon (EM)</p>
<p>EM: We put the call for the workshop on the workshop list posted on the
                        DH2014 website, and we asked applicants to fill out our application, rather
                        than the main DH2014 application. We got six applications before the
                        deadline, and four afterwards. We accepted all 10. We have two or three very
                        technically adept people and two or three at the other end of the scale –
                        less technically experienced attendees are welcome, but should come knowing
                        this won’t be a training session. We have great applicants. EM wondering
                        where to set up the workshop wiki. JC: They can just sign up at the TEI
                        Wiki. EM: OK, I’ll inform them. Do we agree that’s a good place for the
                        content? (Yes). I’ll also ask as many people from Council and elsewhere who
                        can constructively engage in shaping this to participate; this is going to
                        succeed or fail based on the preliminary work, and we’re already very short
                        on technical experts who can attend. SR, JC, EM, Alex Czmiel and SB will be
                        there. JC: Use the Board-Council mailing list for this. Most people will be
                        interested. EM: We need ideas on how to include some of the less experienced
                        people. Also, if you hear of someone who would like to come, please
                        encourage them; we don’t have a full room. It would be good to know about
                        them ahead of time, though. No food is provided by the conference; there are
                        coffee machines in the building, but if we want snacks or pizzas we’ll have
                        to find out how to order them in. JC: We can cover some of that. EM: We can
                        also talk about this in Oxford. We probably want to bring in some food, but
                        the location may not be near food shops/restaurants. SR: I’m going to be
                        there from Saturday, so I’ll see what I can find out. [Some discussion of
                        Byron and his penchant for incising his name on monuments.] JC: Try to make
                        sure you get some involvement from people on the Board. EM: I’ve been
                        getting lots of help from SR, Arianna, JC and Alex.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Report on TEI Conference (JC)</head>
<p>Reminder that it is 22-24 October 2014; </p>
<p>Call for papers extended deadline now passed. Papers through initial review.
                        People to be notified soon, and reject to receive feedback a bit later.</p>
<p>JC, MH, LB, HC and FC are all reviewers on the Program Committee, so they
                        know what’s happening. The extended deadline for papers has now passed, so
                        nothing more should be coming in. SB: Is MM both local organizer and Program
                        Committee? JC: Yes, he’s chair of the PC and local organizer. LB: SR and I
                        put in a proposal for a workshop. We haven’t heard anything. JC: I don’t
                        believe those have been reviewed yet. I believe the intention is to review
                        them. HC: No submitter of anything has been notified yet. LB: My reason for
                        asking is that someone here might have reviewed it and be able to tell me
                        that it has been reviewed. [No-one seems to have done so yet.] JC: I think
                        only posters and papers have been reviewed so far.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Report on SIG Correspondence task force “correspDesc” (PWS)</head>
<p>Minutes at <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/SIG:Correspondence/task-force-correspDesc#Meetings">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/SIG:Correspondence/task-force-correspDesc#Meetings</ref></p>
<p>PWS: This is on the agenda to briefly record our progress. Please have a look
                        at the wiki page and the minutes. Some weeks ago I sent around a little
                        report and only FC responded. Our roadmap is that we will present at the FTF
                        in Oxford. We have Stefan Dumont from the Berlin academy who has created a
                        web service for interchange??? We want to add correspondence metadata to the
                        teiHeader, and we want an interchange format for TEI Correspondence. You can
                        see all this on GitHub. LB: What is CIF? PWS: Correspondence Interchange
                        Format (the shorter, simpler version of the larger proposal). It’s just a
                        teiHeader with a bibl containing correspDesc elements. LB: If I download the
                        zip from GitHub, will I get everything I need? PWS: Yes, you’ll get
                        documentation in the form of an ODD file, and you can generate everything
                        else. JC: It looks very promising. What can Council do to help? PWS: Look at
                        everything in advance of the Oxford meeting, so you’re ready to discuss it.
                        The proposal is to add some elements. LB: It claims to have email within its
                        scope, which is also within the scope of the CMC? group. That’s something
                        Council will have to address. JC: Has anyone from the Correspondence SIG
                        talked to people from the ‘Computer-mediated communication’ SIG? PWS: No, we
                        don’t really know whether they’re active at the moment or not. JC: They had
                        a meeting in Rome, but I don’t know whether they’re planning one for
                        Chicago. <hi style="bold">JC:Action on JC to tell Correspondence SIG that
                            Council recommends they look at the work of the CMC SIG to see what
                            overlap there is.</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Standoff Working Group (PWS)</head>
<p>PWS: I don’t really know how to proceed with this. We had a good meeting in
                        January in Berlin, but I haven’t heard anything in response, and I would
                        like some guidance on how to move forward. JC: I’m not aware of any other
                        discussion going on, so you should nag the SIG. PWS: Who is formally engaged
                        with that ticket? SB: Piotr, HC, me. PWS: I’ll send an email to the people
                        from the Berlin meeting and to Syd. LB: Javier Pose put quite a lot of work
                        into writing this up. I would suggest that you contact him and
                        see if he’s happy with the work that’s been done so far. PWS: He was in
                        Berlin, so he knows what’s happening. JC: <hi style="bold">Action on PWS to
                            contact the people who were in Berlin to see if they’re happy with what
                            they did in Berlin, and whether they could create a formal proposal for
                            Council to consider.</hi> OWS: What constitutes a formal proposal? LB: A
                        formal proposal would take the form of an ODD. JC: While that is optimal, if
                        it’s not exactly in that format we can still consider it, though. </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Object Working Group (JC)</head>
<p>JC: I emailed a couple of days ago asking for comments on their proposal;
                        previously a couple of comments were passed back to Torsten; we’ve basically
                        agreed to it, but I’ll email them again to get more response before I go
                        forward. SR: Metacomment: NEDIMAH set aside some money for a meeting of this
                        group, and the money might run out if they don’t use it soon. <hi style="bold">Action on JC to move forward on encouraging the object
                            working group.</hi></p>
</div>
<div>
<p>                    Next Release (JC)</p>
<p>JC: I suggest the end of July for a release. SB: I like that better than
                        before then, for personal reasons. SR: How long between the FTF and the
                        release? JC: About a month. The last release was in January, and we don’t
                        want to omit things which are decided in Oxford but may not quite be
                        implemented. JC: If we are doing a release then, what really determines the
                        date is the person making the release. Any volunteers? We have been trying
                        to have someone new do every release to help improve the documentation. SB:
                        I never really got to complete my release for technical reasons, so I
                        wouldn’t mind doing it again. EM: I think it’s time for me to give it a
                        shot. SB and I are in the same place, so we could work together. SB: I’d be
                        happy with that. EM: If we do that, it has to be after August 6 as I will be
                        away until then.. SR: Let’s reconsider this at the FTF. JC: So we’re
                        tentatively going with EM and SB together, and we can discuss further at the
                        FTF. SB: Some of the regular support team may be on holiday in August. HC:
                        I’m happy to do it too, although I’ve already done it. JC: The most
                        important thing is to get enough worthy work done to make it a good
                        release.</p>
</div>
<div>
<p>                    TEI Pointers (more or less) final draft (HC)</p>
<p><ref target="http://hcayless.github.io/TEI-Guidelines/Guidelines-web/en/html/SA.html#SATS">http://hcayless.github.io/TEI-Guidelines/Guidelines-web/en/html/SA.html#SATS</ref><lb/>HC: Will anyone complain if I go ahead and commit my work. SB: I won’t
                        complain, but I won’t be able to review it until June. LB: It all looks
                        great except for one thing: that the main example (text) is not easily
                        intelligible if you don’t read Greek. HC: The requirements for the example
                        is that you have something that’s fairly heavily marked up. MH: I’ll
                        volunteer to try to provide alternative examples from other contexts.JC:
                        Multiple examples will help us to demonstrate different things. HC: I don’t
                        think we can have too many examples. LB: I love to disagree! In this
                        context, you want to have one solid example that runs through the whole
                        thing. EM: Would it be easier if it were in Latin, which is a roman
                        character set? LB: Probably yes. HC: I can do a Latin example instead. <hi style="bold">Action on HC to add a Latin example which will be more
                            generally accessible.</hi> [General agreement.] SB: You don’t want to
                        give people the excuse to say “Pointers are Greek to me.” SR trolled about
                        whitespace and was told to shut up. HC: The only real question is whether
                        there’s anything that would block my merging it into trunk, or whether what
                        remains is minor. Comments can come by email, or by posting a comment on
                        GitHub. LB: Since this is now being considered by Council, let’s make
                        comments to the Council list. [All agree].</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Text directionality additions to Guidelines — any comments?</head>
<p><ref target="http://teijenkins.hcmc.uvic.ca/job/TEIP5/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/WD.html#WDWM">http://teijenkins.hcmc.uvic.ca/job/TEIP5/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/WD.html#WDWM</ref></p>
<p>JC: Don’t comment on the use of non-roman characters here, obviously. If
                        everyone has read the new content before the FTF, then it can be finally
                        approved. Of course like any other part of the Guidelines it can be amended
                        later. LB: Again, all comments should go to the Council list. <hi style="bold">Action on ALL: Comments to council list on
                            text-directinality, final time.</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Any Other Business</head>
<p> SR: Social question about the FTF: Do you want to come to my house again for
                        dinner, or should we have a picnic in the park? JC: We can organize a
                        picnic, and then if it’s raining, hold it at SR’s house. EM: A picnic is OK
                        if no volleyball is involved. SR: Some entertainment (possibly a frisbee)
                        will be provided.</p>
<p>JC: Reminds everyone to look at their tickets, do them, comment on them, make
                        everyone work on your ticket if necessary. <hi style="bold">Action on ALL:
                            Get on with completing the tickets you have assigned to you</hi></p>
<p>JC: Minutes will be open for editing until Monday evening (everyone’s time),
                        then they will be TEI-ed. Thank you all for coming and etc. </p>
</div>
</div>
	</body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>