<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2015-01"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2015-01" when="2015-01-30">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>30 January 2015</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM065</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21921</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		<!-- <div class="teiheader"><filedesc><titlestmt><title></title></titlestmt><editionstmt><edition><date/></edition></editionstmt><publicationstmt>
<p>TEI Council</p>
</publicationstmt><sourcedesc><p>Converted from a Word document.</p>
<p>      </sourcedesc></filedesc><encodingdesc><appinfo><application id="doxtotei" ident="TEI_fromDOCX" version="2.15.0"><label>DOCX to TEI</label>
        </application></appinfo></encodingdesc><revisiondesc><listchange><change><date>2015-02-22T03:59:04Z</date><name/></change></listchange></revisiondesc></div> -->
<div>
<p>TEI Teleconference 2015-01-30 14:00Z</p>
<p>
          <hi style="bold">Participants:</hi></p>
<p>Syd Bauman (SB, arrived ~14:25Z) </p>
<p>Lou Burnard (LB), </p>
<p>Hugh Cayless (HC),</p>
<p>James Cummings (JC), </p>
<p>Martin Holmes (MH),</p>
<p>Stefan Majewski (SM),</p>
<p>Peter Stadler (PWS),</p>
<p>Paul Schaffner (PFS),</p>
<p>Raffaele Viglianti (RV),</p>
<p>Fabio Ciotti (FC),</p>
<p>Stefanie Gehrke (SG)</p>
<p>
          <hi style="bold">Regrets:</hi></p>
</div>
<div><head>
        Agenda</head>
<div><head> id="h.y6ldevtkstra"&gt;
          Welcomes
          </head><list style="ul">
<item>JC opened the meeting by welcoming HC as new elected chair of the technical
              council for 2015.</item>
<item>HC thanked JC for chairing the technical council previously and hoped to live up
              to his fine example of administrative brilliance. </item>
<item>HC welcomed the new members RV and SM and welcomed back LB and SB.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="h.w8hzdy6xdeck"&gt;
          Review of Actions from last F2F
          </head><list style="ul">
<item><label>Action:</label> All members of council interested in TEI Simple to join the mailing list
                <ref target="https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple">https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple</ref></item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action: on LB Set up a mailing list to discuss ODD/Pure ODD,
                etc. (Done; see</hi><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar</ref><hi style="strike">)</hi></item>
<item><label>Action:</label> on ALL interested in ODD/Pure ODD, join tei-odds mailing list <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/mailman/?source=navbar</ref></item>
<item><label>Action:</label> LB to continue development/implementation of Pure ODD with SR and report
              back to council on new developments</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> JC to try to find a co-organiser for DH2015 TEI Hackathon.<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">Action on JC to continue DH2015 event
                    organisation and report back to council mailing list, but suggestions from
                    council appreciated. </hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action: PWS to revise the draft correspDesc proposal and draw
                attention to council for final review before implementing as part of the TEI
                Guidelines.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action: SB/MH/LB to offer themselves as TEI mentors to
                members of Council and encourage new members to ask them (or council)
                questions.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action: MH to post to council mailing list making suggestions
                for mentorship programme</hi></item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action: LB volunteers to mentor Stefan.</hi></item>
<item><label>Action:</label> MH to act as JTEI liaison for now, reporting on any major changes to JTEI
              Schema and authoring package. <hi style="bold">Ron Van den Branden has been working on
                integrating the JTEI Schematron into the ODD file, and has found some bugs and
                stumbling blocks which we have almost finished working out. </hi></item>
<item><label>Action:</label> MH to separate out anything that shouldn’t be public in the JTEI Schema,
              merge in schematron constraints, documentation, etc. and add to TEI Sourceforge
              Repository. Add JTEI Authoring environment to the oxygen-tei framework. <hi style="bold">MH is working with Ian Rifkin to get an SVN repo set up on tei-c for
                private materials (unedited documents etc.); that should be done soon.</hi><list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">Action on MH to continue jTEI
                    integration</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action: on MH to implement @resp changes, and update prose
                and examples in Guidelines to have @resp point to respStmt (etc.)</hi></item>
<item><label>Action:</label> SB to inform council in future about developments of this draft (LOC date
              attrs) e.g. if it might be adopted by ISO or W3C etc.</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> LB to create tickets for the 2 new elements<list style="ul">
<item>done; there is also a related git project owned by Laurent (see FR 539, FR
                  378, <ref target="https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec">https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec</ref>)</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> ALL to read the <hi style="italic">Transcription of Spoken Language</hi>
              draft (<ref target="http://bit.ly/1jyZC37">http://bit.ly/1jyZC37</ref>) and be ready to comment on it at next conference call
              (or soon thereafter) This is a stand-alone document not intended to lead to revisions
              of the guidelines, except insofar as it proposes additions to the spec.<list style="ul">
<item>Action on everyone to actually read this and we <hi style="bold">really will</hi> comment on it next time. LB to remind Council about
                  this on the mailing list and nag us to comment.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> JC to create a proposal listing those parts which are required for
              generation of the TEI products (Guidelines, schemas etc.)<list style="ul">
<item>Not done yet. <hi style="bold">Action on JC: document those bits of
                    Stylesheets required for TEI Ouputs.</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action: JC to add each council member as a member of a team
                with admin powers to the TEI-C github organization [DONE]</hi></item>
<item><label>Action:</label> PWS/MH to update SVN Documentation and include information concerning
                GitHub<list style="ul">
<item>Not done yet. </item>
</list>
</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> PWS to return to Council mailing list with call for testing or suggestions
              on improvement for a TEI Checker web service in the next few weeks, and Council to
              respond with suggested improvements.<list style="ul">
<item>Not done
                yet.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> HC to produce an updated Critical Apparatus ODD and redraft document for
              Council discussion.<list style="ul">
<item>Partially done. </item>
</list>
</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> on JC, MH, HC, SB consider wherever possible writing additional
              documentation, blog posts, or similar on the technical aspects presented, and notify
              council or TEI-L. <list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">JC: Not done, will do
                    before 2015-03-01. MH: Not done yet. </hi><ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> On ALL to look at tickets assigned to them and update them with latest
              status, and implement where possible.</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> FC to get in contact with Laurent Romary for TBX TEI integration<list style="ul">
<item>FC discussed with LR over email</item>
<item>LR receptive to
                  ideas, but will have to think about it…</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
<p>FC to poke LR</p>
</div>
<div>
      <head>    Actions from <ref target="/Activities/Council/Meetings/tcm64.xml">lastTeleconference</ref>:
      </head>    <list style="ul">
<item><label>Action:</label> LB to draft prose for correspDesc additions to header chapter and report
              back to Council<list style="ul">
<item>Not done yet. LB will look at Peter’s new
                  draft.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>PWS to report back on Standoff progress<list style="ul">
<item>No progress.
                    <ref target="https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec">https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><label>Action:</label> All to read the msPart proposal and discuss them on the mailing list.<list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">ticket:</hi><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/">http://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/</ref></item>
<item><hi style="bold">document:</hi><ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit</ref></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on SG to badger everyone to read msPart proposal
                    and lead debate</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action on Council to discuss global @resp on the mailing list
                before Tuesday; then MH will go ahead with implementation. </hi></item>
<item>Action on PWS to fix a date by which the <gi>correspDesc</gi> proposal should be
              implemented and report to the Council list.</item>
<item>Action on MH to report to Council within a month or so about oxygen-tei framework
              building and next release<list style="ul">
<item>successfully building on
                  Jenkins</item>
<item>MH wants regular test build for council to subscribe to in
                  order to test oxygen-tei build. (Existing framework is built and maintained by
                  Council, but not tested.)</item>
<item>remove Brown ODD editing schema? —
                  YES</item>
<item>SB to co-ordinate w/ oXygen folks about putting new version
                  (odd4odd, aka toctoc) into framework, if OKed by (tei-oxygen framework maintainers
                  OR council)</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on all mentors to document their experiences and what they
                learn on the wiki.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action on JC to officially introduce mentors to mentorees on
                Council. [DONE]</hi></item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action on MH to post to Council list with a set of links to
                helpful documents. [DONE]</hi></item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action: JC to prod Object working group again. [DONE]</hi></item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action: JC to set up Council Chair elections, get a returning
                officer, etc. [DONE]</hi></item>
<item><hi style="strike">Action on JC: to post a Doodle poll for the next conference
                within a week. [DONE]</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="h.cwfaqna7e1f8"&gt;
          Unassigned Bugs and Feature Requests
          </head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/?q={&#34;status&#34;%3A+{&#34;$nin&#34;%3A+%5B&#34;closed-wont-fix&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-rejected&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-out-of-date&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-accepted&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-works-for-me&#34;%2C+&#34;closed&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-duplicate&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-invalid&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-fixed&#34;%5D}}&amp;limit=25&amp;page=0&amp;sort=ticket_num desc&amp;filter={&#34;assigned_to&#34;%3A%5B&#34;&#34;%5D}&amp;columns-0.name=ticket_num&amp;columns-0.sort_name=ticket_num&amp;columns-0.label=Ticket Number&amp;columns-0.active=on&amp;columns-1.name=summary&amp;columns-1.sort_name=summary&amp;columns-1.label=Summary&amp;columns-1.active=on&amp;columns-2.name=_milestone&amp;columns-2.sort_name=custom_fields._milestone&amp;columns-2.label=Milestone&amp;columns-2.active=on&amp;columns-3.name=status&amp;columns-3.sort_name=status&amp;columns-3.label=Status&amp;columns-3.active=on&amp;columns-4.name=assigned_to&amp;columns-4.sort_name=assigned_to_username&amp;columns-4.label=Owner&amp;columns-4.active=on&amp;columns-5.name=reported_by&amp;columns-5.sort_name=reported_by&amp;columns-5.label=Creator&amp;columns-5.active=on&amp;columns-6.name=created_date&amp;columns-6.sort_name=created_date&amp;columns-6.label=Created&amp;columns-6.active=on&amp;columns-7.name=mod_date&amp;columns-7.sort_name=mod_date&amp;columns-7.label=Updated&amp;columns-7.active=on&amp;columns-8.name=labels&amp;columns-8.sort_name=labels&amp;columns-8.label=Labels&amp;columns-8.active=on&amp;columns-9.name=_priority&amp;columns-9.sort_name=_priority&amp;columns-9.label=Priority&amp;columns-9.active=on">Bugs</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/?q={&#34;status&#34;%3A+{&#34;$nin&#34;%3A+%5B&#34;closed-wont-fix&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-later&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-rejected&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-out-of-date&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-accepted&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-remind&#34;%2C+&#34;closed&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-duplicate&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-invalid&#34;%2C+&#34;closed-fixed&#34;%5D}}&amp;limit=25&amp;page=0&amp;sort=ticket_num desc&amp;filter={&#34;assigned_to&#34;%3A%5B&#34;&#34;%5D}&amp;columns-0.name=ticket_num&amp;columns-0.sort_name=ticket_num&amp;columns-0.label=Ticket Number&amp;columns-0.active=on&amp;columns-1.name=summary&amp;columns-1.sort_name=summary&amp;columns-1.label=Summary&amp;columns-1.active=on&amp;columns-2.name=_milestone&amp;columns-2.sort_name=custom_fields._milestone&amp;columns-2.label=Milestone&amp;columns-2.active=on&amp;columns-3.name=status&amp;columns-3.sort_name=status&amp;columns-3.label=Status&amp;columns-3.active=on&amp;columns-4.name=assigned_to&amp;columns-4.sort_name=assigned_to_username&amp;columns-4.label=Owner&amp;columns-4.active=on&amp;columns-5.name=reported_by&amp;columns-5.sort_name=reported_by&amp;columns-5.label=Creator&amp;columns-5.active=on&amp;columns-6.name=created_date&amp;columns-6.sort_name=created_date&amp;columns-6.label=Created&amp;columns-6.active=on&amp;columns-7.name=mod_date&amp;columns-7.sort_name=mod_date&amp;columns-7.label=Updated&amp;columns-7.active=on&amp;columns-8.name=labels&amp;columns-8.sort_name=labels&amp;columns-8.label=Labels&amp;columns-8.active=on&amp;columns-9.name=_priority&amp;columns-9.sort_name=_priority&amp;columns-9.label=Priority&amp;columns-9.active=on">FeatureRequests</ref></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on all: take tickets that they want to work on before
                2015-02-07</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on HC: assign any tickets remaining at 2015-02-08 to distribute
                fairly (but bearing in mind what he knows of our preferences and experience)</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
  <head>        Update on<ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/510/">correspDescproposal</ref> (PWS)
  </head>        <list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc">https://github.com/TEI-Correspondence-SIG/correspDesc</ref></item>
<item>PWS believe this is ready to be added to trunk; if no-one objects, he proposes to
              go ahead with this a week from now. There is one problem with proposed values for
              @type, but he suspects this is due to namespaces and will disappear with integration
              (although this suggests a bug in the Stylesheets that should be filed).</item>
<item>LB warns that there may be problems with DTD generation if any significant changes
              have been made in content models.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on PWS to try to incorporate correspDesc on 2015-02-13.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on ALL: Feedback about correspDesc preferably before
                2015-02-06.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="h.an6cfq85jfic"&gt;
          Update on TEI Simple (JC)
          </head><list style="ul">
<item>Report posted to TEI Council mailing list. <ref target="http://lists.tei-c.org/pipermail/tei-council/2015/020458.html">http://lists.tei-c.org/pipermail/tei-council/2015/020458.html</ref></item>
<item>Council encouraged to join TEI Simple mailing list at: <ref target="https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple">https://web.maillist.ox.ac.uk/ox/subscribe/teisimple</ref></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on all Council to read and comment by 2015-02-28.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
    <head>      Update on<ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/505/">redefiningmsPart</ref> (SG / PWS)
       </head>   <list style="ul">
<item>SG wants feedback</item>
<item><ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpBPughQp5sOoB13iTMHMeRd88Mjv12_eGZiQXY-na8/edit</ref></item>
<item>Discussed above.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on ALL: Comments about msPart proposal by end of
                2015-02-28</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="h.p4ud1ml8h68i"&gt;
          Update on Oxygen plugin test builds (MH)
          </head><list style="ul">
<item>Discussed above.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="h.hwlwiil0fxts"&gt;
          Dates/times for teleconferences
          </head><list style="ul">
<item>Is this day &amp; time generally ok? Say, the last Friday of every month? 13:30
              UTC</item>
<item>SB suggests every month except when within 2 weeks of F2F</item>
<item>Agreed to teleconferences 13:30Z last Fri of every month</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on HC to post a list of all dates and times.</hi></item>
<item>SB created a <ref target="http://doodle.com/xpeuxmm9qudu7avz">Doodlepoll</ref> that shows that Nov and Dec will be
              problematic due to holidays</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="h.3qcbltb20tuo"&gt;
          Date of next release/release technician
          </head><list style="ul">
<item>SB suggests RV (RV: sounds good to me)</item>
<item>CorrespDesc complete before</item>
<item>Action on LB: attempt to implement @hand proposal.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Suggested release time-frame: </hi><list style="ul">
<item><hi style="bold">Freeze: 2015-03-27.</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Proof: 2015-04-03</hi></item>
<item><hi style="bold">Release: 2015-04-06 (easter monday) 😉</hi></item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head> id="h.z1zne8e6wmu8"&gt;
          Date/venue for next F2F
          </head><list style="ul">
<item>Estonia<hi style="bold">? Would need confirmation of strong local support, and
                soon.</hi></item>
<item>Poland?</item>
<item>MITH? (willing; people don’t like College Park, but D.C. is great)</item>
<item>John Unsworth at BrandeisU – Boston Area.</item>
<item>We could ask Elli Mylonas if she would be willing to host at Brown again</item>
<item>SB could ask if Northeastern DSG would be willing to host in Boston (Boston would
              be a great location, but SB cannot play local host as he lives too far away.)</item>
<item>Ann Arbor is willing. And has reasonably convenient transport via DTW.</item>
<item>DATE? — Action on HC: post Doodle poll for when next F2F will occur.</item>
<item><hi style="bold">Action on ALL: Email suggests of F2F locations to mailing list.</hi></item>
</list>
<p>
            <hi style="bold">Action on ALL: Edit minutes document until 2015-02-04</hi></p>
<p>
            <hi style="bold">Action on HC: Convert to minutes to TEI and get Webmaster to upload to
              TEI-C site by 2015-02-06 and mention to social-media coordinator.</hi></p>
</div>
</div>
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>