<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2015-10"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2015-10" from="2015-10-25" to="2015-10-28">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Lyon</placeName>, <date>25–28 October 2015</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM074</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21930</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text>
        <body>

            <head>TEI Technical Council Minutes 2015-10</head>
            <milestone unit="unknown" rend="rule"/>


            <div>



                <div>
                    <head>TEI Technical Council Agenda and Minutes, 2015-10</head>
                    <list>
                        <head>Present:</head>
                        <item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
                        <item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
                        <item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
                        <item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
                        <item>Stefanie Gehrke (SG)</item>
                        <item>Martin Holmes (MH)</item>
                        <item>Stefan Majewski (SM)</item>
                        <item>Paul Schaffner (PFS)</item>
                        <item>Peter Stadler (PWS)</item>
                        <item>Raffaele Viglianti (RV)</item>
                        <item>Fabio Ciotti (FC) – from 4 pm Sun</item>
                    </list>
                    <list>
                        <head>GUESTS ON WEDNESDAY MORNING:</head>
                        <item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EBB)</item>
                        <item>Antonio Rojas Castro (ARC)</item>
                        <item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
                    </list>
                </div>

                <div>
                    <head> Sunday 25 October, 09:00–17:00</head>
                    <p>venue: <ref target="https://www.google.com/maps/place/Mama+Shelter+Lyon/@45.7458268,4.8387803,15.89z/data=!4m7!1m4!3m3!1s0x47f4ea411d5dbddd:0x89b42b659826e561!2sMama+Shelter+Lyon!3b1!3m1!1s0x47f4ea411d5dbddd:0x89b42b659826e561"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">Mama Shelter</hi></ref>,
                        Atelier 3</p>
                    <p>SSID: Mama Shelter, login: Visitors; 5821191761</p>
                    <p>09:00–10:30: Agenda setting, etc.</p>
                    <p>10:30: Coffee Break</p>
                    <p>13:00–14:00: Lunch at hotel</p>
                    <div>
                        <head> Items for discussion </head>
                        <list>
                            <item>What is wrong with anyXML, and how can we fix it? (RelaxNG, Jing
                                and @xml:ids)<list>
                                    <item>Content model for macro.anyXML has not changed.
                                        Nevertheless, the introduction of <gi>xenoData</gi> has
                                        caused a problem to occur. The macro has been moved from
                                        tagdocs to tei module, which may be one reason. We need to
                                        find out whether the move to another module caused it, or
                                        its use in <gi>xenoData</gi>. It’s possible that the order
                                        of modules in an ODD may cause this; if so, we could
                                        constrain that with Schematron. HC has turned off one of the
                                        tests in the build process to avoid the problem for now. <hi style="bold">Action on LB to do testing and report back
                                            to Council.</hi> due 2015-11-25</item>
                                    <item><hi style="bold">Action on HC to figure out what specific
                                            test caused the problem and why. Also to create an Issue
                                            for this. Done.</hi></item>
                                    <item>For Schematron to check ID uniqueness, see <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/Xmlid_uniqueness.sch"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">wiki
                                                example</hi></ref></item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                            <item>Release scheduling:<list>
                                    <item>We don’t have to release on schedule, perhaps we should
                                        not feel forced to have a release when we’re still
                                        discussing issues? (but how does that pair with our desire
                                        to always have a release some time before members
                                        meeting)</item>
                                    <item>“release-candidate”? or work on three levels in github :
                                        a/branches – b/development (all work there) – c/master <list>
                                            <item>git fetch + git merge <ref target="https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Branches-in-a-Nutshell"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Branches-in-a-Nutshell</hi></ref></item>
                                        </list>
                                    </item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                        </list>
                        <p>What is a release?</p>
                        <list>
                            <item>Guidelines and Schemas</item>
                            <item>Oxygen Packages</item>
                            <item>Debian Packages? Which ones?</item>
                            <item>HC suggests a new process taking better advantage of natural git
                                methods of working. This would involve creating a new development
                                branch, which would be where we branch from and merge to, and then
                                build the development branch on Jenkins. The master branch (renamed
                                to release?) would be where releases come from; merges are made from
                                development to master before release. We should make the development
                                branch the default on GitHub, and document this in the readme
                                document. </item>
                            <item><list>
                                    <head>Decisions after discussion:</head>
                                    <item>copy current master branch to new dev branch</item>
                                    <item>make the dev branch the default (on GitHub)</item>
                                    <item>master branch is our new stable branch (aka
                                        release)</item>
                                    <item>Ticket is closed when in dev branch</item>
                                    <item>whole dev branch is merged into master once ONLY for
                                        release and tagged</item>
                                    <item>Jenkins monitors dev branch.</item>
                                    <item>When a tag is created for a release candidate (with a
                                        version number ending in e.g. rc1 for “release candidate
                                        1”), the zip of the products built by Jenkins is pulled down
                                        and pushed to tei.github.io, where it is public and we can
                                        ask for feedback.</item>
                                    <item>No one pushes to the Master unless making a
                                        release.</item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                        </list>
                        <list>
                            <item>Adding and improving release processes and documentation</item>
                            <item>Jenkins: Victoria and Oxford or tei-c?<list>
                                    <item>Or Amazon AWC? It’s a cost that the board would have to
                                        approve. Pricing: <ref target="https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/</hi></ref>
                                        though note the costing is dependent on the number of back
                                        builds we keep, etc.</item>
                                    <item>We need a stable URL for the Jenkins server, wherever it
                                        is, so that this can be changed once for all in all the spec
                                        files.</item>
                                    <item>Consensus seems to be that we should get:
                                        jenkins.tei-c.org (redirected at tei-c.org to wherever it
                                        needs to be whether a local hosted copy or AWS or
                                        whatever)</item>
                                    <item><hi style="bold">Action: JC to get jenkins.tei-c.org (as
                                            soon as Martin configures his server to have it pointed
                                            at) also jenkins-backup.tei-c.org for another
                                            server.</hi></item>
                                    <item><hi style="bold">Action: PWS will set up a Jenkins at
                                            upb.de; done.</hi></item>
                                    <item>SM: Travis-CI? any experiences. MH we are currently
                                        hitting the 30Min limit. SM could do a Tue hackathon on
                                        this. Would need reduction of build time because of
                                        limits.</item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                            <item>Stylesheets management<list>
                                    <item>What parts of the Stylesheets repo should Council be
                                        responsible for?<list>
                                            <item>LB argues: All of it (all needed for co-products
                                                like guidelines)</item>
                                            <item>prioritize : docx; pdf; html ; odf </item>
                                            <item>develop workflow for stylesheets</item>
                                        </list>
                                    </item>
                                    <item>Suggestion that “every issue should have an Issue” (e.g.
                                        both in Guidelines and Stylesheets if it affects
                                        both?)</item>
                                    <item>Branch workflow in Stylesheets repository: we’ll use the
                                        same “dev” and “master” 2-main-branch system we decided upon
                                        for the Guidelines, above. </item>
                                    <item><hi style="bold">HC to send e-mail to non-Council
                                            Stylesheets contributors </hi>[turns out the only
                                        contributor with push access is Magdalena Turska, who’s
                                        about to join Council anyway]</item>
                                    <item><hi style="bold">HC to actually change repo to the
                                            2-main-branch system</hi> [done]</item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                            <item>Debian packages?<list>
                                    <item>several packages involved: stylesheets, Guidelines,
                                        etc.</item>
                                    <item>Need a stable location for the packages, e.g.
                                        packages.tei-c.org (could then transparently to users be
                                        hosted at any of our institution).</item>
                                    <item>Need a TEI gpg key for signing debian packages</item>
                                    <item><ref target="http://packages.tei-c.org/deb/"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/teideb/</hi></ref></item>
                                    <item>list of packages, status: <ref target="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1w3ObgtqxpwYLrfaF-N0SPTt5X3ITmg2iLa5ZevAg3eE/edit?usp=sharing"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1w3ObgtqxpwYLrfaF-N0SPTt5X3ITmg2iLa5ZevAg3eE/edit?usp=sharing</hi></ref></item>
                                    <item><hi style="bold">Action on SM, SB, and MH to learn how to
                                            build &amp; sign packages, and set up a repository, with
                                            a view to replacing the existing repository with a new
                                            one and creating a new build/sign/release process. Also
                                            to investigate if/which old packages could be dropped
                                            (TEI-P4 f.ex). Investigate whether we can use PPAs; By
                                            2015-11-30. This should be tracked with an
                                        Issue.</hi></item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                            <item>Jenkins setup:<list>
                                    <item><hi style="bold">Action on JC and MH to set up virtual
                                            hosts on their Jenkins machines for jenkins.tei-c.org
                                            and jenkins-backup.tei-c.org. Action on JC after this is
                                            done to ask Ian Rifkin to set up pointers on tei-c to
                                            point the first to the Oxford server and the second to
                                            the Victoria one. BY 2015-11-30.</hi></item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                            <item>Year-end release<list>
                                    <item>Pure ODD</item>
                                    <item>Processing Model Documentation</item>
                                    <item>TEI Simple</item>
                                    <item>Consensus: Release when ready but would be preferable to
                                        release Pure ODD and PM together.</item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                            <item>Git / GitHub tutorial?<list>
                                    <item>Too many labels on GitHub. <hi style="bold">Action on RV
                                            to review, report to council, and clean up (or mentor
                                            new council member). Between election and Jan? Or do we
                                            feel it’s needed sooner? By 2015-12-25</hi></item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                            <item>Ticket Review<list>
                                    <item>BUGS </item>
                                </list>
                            </item>
                        </list>
                    </div>
                </div>
                <div>
                    <head> Monday 26 October, 09:00–17:00</head>
                    <p>venue: <ref target="https://www.google.com/maps/place/ENS+de+Lyon+-+Site+Descartes/@45.7411221,4.8316472,15z/data=!4m2!3m1!1s0x47f4ea2eb874b39d:0x3138a4e7dc6840c5"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">L’École normale supérieure de
                                Lyon</hi></ref>, <hi style="color(3D3D3D) background(white)">Institut français de l’Éducation, meeting room 3</hi> (<ref target="http://tei2015.huma-num.fr/en/venue/"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">conference venue
                        page</hi></ref>)</p>
                    <p>09:00–12:30 Ticket Review</p>
                    <p>12:30–13:30: Lunch (delivered)</p>
                    <p>13:30–17:00: Ticket Review</p>
                </div>
                <div>
                    <head> Tuesday 27 October </head>
                    <p>HACKING DAY: Some TEI Council members sat in a computer room at ENS and
                        worked on their tickets and other TEI-related activity.</p>
                </div>
                <div>
                    <head> Wednesday 28 October, 09:00–12:30</head>
                    <p>venue: ENS again; guests (listed above) present</p>
                    <p>from 9:15</p>
                    <list>
                        <item>Round of introductions</item>
                        <item>HC introduces minutes document and general council workflow</item>
                        <item>Tickets<list>
                                <item>Vote on @source in att.global.responsibility carried in favour
                                    against all sensible reason.</item>
                            </list>
                        </item>
                        <item>Stylesheets tickets<list>
                                <item><hi style="bold">Action on all</hi>: Please look at
                                    Stylesheets issues and choose a ticket or two by 2015-11-08;
                                    those tickets not assigned will be handed out at random (to MH,
                                    JC, SB, LB, RV, PS, HC, SM, keeping in mind those that have
                                    already taken tickets) by Chair on or about 2015-11-09.</item>
                            </list>
                        </item>
                        <item>TEI Simple<list>
                                <item><hi style="bold">Action on all</hi>: Read docs pointed at
                                    below by 2015-11-12, and if you don’t want to actually edit it
                                    send comments to list or LB.</item>
                                <item>PM stuff: <ref target="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/blob/master/tei-pm.html"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/blob/master/tei-pm.html</hi></ref>
                                    (for the –summaryDoc version or for the full odd version see)
                                        <ref target="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/blob/master/tei-pm.odd.html"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/blob/master/tei-pm.odd.html</hi></ref></item>
                            </list>
                        </item>
                        <item>Pure ODD<list>
                                <item>Main job left is getting the display to look right, which is
                                    on HC.</item>
                                <item>LB asks that people check out the branch and test
                                    things</item>
                            </list>
                        </item>
                        <item>Next Release<list>
                                <item>Year end or wait until Simple-PM and Pure ODD are ready?<list>
                                        <item>Test suite for processing model needs to be
                                            understood: we would like to ensure there is a test
                                            suite that properly exercises the structures and
                                            capabilities of the PM </item>
                                        <item>JC believes that SPQR built these tests into the
                                            development of Simple. The <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/blob/master/build.xml"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple/blob/master/build.xml</hi></ref>
                                            has a ‘pm’ target (as does the Makefile) which runs a
                                            series of test files through the PM. </item>
                                        <item>Action: JC to make a branch off of LB’s pureODD
                                            branch, add new tests there. </item>
                                    </list>
                                </item>
                            </list>
                        </item>
                        <item>anyXML<list>
                                <item>Guidance on this problem belongs to the tagdocs chapter
                                    (specifically, a new para at the end of <ref target="/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/TD.html#TDeg"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/TD.html#TDeg</hi></ref>)
                                    , perhaps using the svg: example, linked to from a note in the
                                    header chapter (re: xenoData where the problem could conceivably
                                    arise, whereas egXML is a more likely locus for the
                                    problem.)</item>
                                <item>explanation should include a sample of Schematron that can be
                                    used for ID uniqueness checking</item>
                            </list>
                        </item>
                        <item>Meeting adjourned 11:31Z, with Council expressing its best wishes to
                            Sebastian Rahtz and his family</item>
                    </list>
                </div>
            </div>

        </body>
    </text></TEI>