<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2015-12"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2015-12" when="2015-12-03">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>3 December 2015</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM075</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21931</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		<!-- <div class="teiheader"><filedesc><titlestmt><title></title><author>TEI Technical Council</author></titlestmt><editionstmt><edition><date>2016-01-20</date></edition></editionstmt><publicationstmt>
<p>unknown</p>
</publicationstmt><sourcedesc><p>Converted from a Word document</p>
<p>            </sourcedesc></filedesc><encodingdesc><appinfo><application id="docxtotei" ident="TEI_fromDOCX" version="2.15.0"><label>DOCX to TEI</label>
                </application></appinfo></encodingdesc><revisiondesc><listchange><change><date>2016-01-20T15:12:26Z</date><name/></change></listchange></revisiondesc></div> -->

<div><head>Teleconference 2015-12-03 14:00 UTC</head>
<div><head>
                Present</head>
<list style="ul">
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Martin Holmes (MH)</item>
<item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV)</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EB)</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT)</item>
<item>Fabio Ciotti (FC until ~15:15)</item>
<item>Elli Mylonas (EM)</item>
<item>Stefan Majewski (SM) (reading until ~15:15)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
<item>Stefanie Gehrke (SG) (reading)</item>
<item>Paul Schaffner (PFS)</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
                Apologies</head>
<list style="ul">
<item>Peter Stadler (PWS)</item>
</list>
</div>
</div>

<div><head>
                Agenda and Minutes</head>
<div><head>&gt;
                    Pure ODD branch integration
                    </head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="http://teic.github.io/TEI/"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">http://teic.github.io/TEI/</hi></ref> has the last available
                            version</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/tree/lb42-pureodd"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/tree/lb42-pureodd</hi></ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/tree/pureodd"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/tree/pureodd</hi></ref></item>
</list>
<p>LB reported on the progress of this. Some stumbling blocks soon to be fixed.
                        Hopes to have a version that runs Makefile in ~24 hrs. Discussed the example
                        pages: MH and JC stress the usefulness of the description, examples, and
                        remarks. LB points out that the class info is already present in the
                        display, and it is confusing to duplicate it. MH points out that nobody is
                        suggesting duplicating it; we’re talking about the order of items in the
                        page. He thinks the examples and remarks should precede the ODD and RelaxNG
                        content models. JC agrees or suggests that there should be some whizzy web
                        mechanism for making examples/remarks more visible.</p>
<p>[<hi style="italic bold">break owing to google hangouts having predefined
                            limits</hi>] </p>
<p>Continuing: LB and SB suggest that the class membership does not need to be
                        in the ODD bit; and MH suggests that the caption should be “Content model”,
                        not mentioning Pure ODD. SB suggests that we should also deprecate the
                        display of the RelaxNG. Others think it should actually be enhanced with
                        other schema languages (XSD, but not DTD). SB says that we should
                        concentrate on getting Pure ODD out the door before worrying about the
                        schema display. There is consensus on the removal of classes and
                        recaptioning; the proposal to move the examples and remarks above the
                        content model is subject to disagreement. HC to integrate these changes in
                        next crack at pure-ODD processing stylesheet.</p>
<p> LB raises problem of anyXML (ticket already <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1373"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1373</hi></ref> ) Stylesheets
                        need to be changed to cope with this, i.e. generate correct definition. </p>
<p>MH suggests that the PDF generation may be a problem and it would be good to
                        find out soon whether that’s going to be a big problem or not. HC thinks
                        there are probably issues with PDF versions of PureODD content models, but
                        does not know. However, it is difficult to do generalized testing until
                        everyone has it. Need to get this ready to test.</p>
<p>SM was working on PDFs. JC and MH note that the EPub generation will also be
                        affected. </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Processing Model integration</head>
<p>JC reports that the draft text is in a branch ‘processing-model’ off the
                        lb42-pureodd branch. All the model* elements, etc. have been added there and
                        linked to from guidelines. LB noted that he has created a brand new branch
                        and not checked it in yet, so JC will have to re-do all his work. JC agrees
                        to do so but may need help with the tests. LB volunteers to help when Pure
                        ODD is off his plate.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    TEI Simple</head>
<p>JC reports that the PIs of the TEI Simple project (Martin Mueller, Sebastian
                        Rahtz, Brian Pytlig Zillig) desire TEI Simple to be added as soon as
                        possible. It has a dependency on the processing model documentation, which
                        has a dependency on Pure ODD.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Next Release?</head>
<p>Much discussion of the integration and proposed release order leads to
                        consensus that we should first integrate Pure ODD, and make sure everything
                        works; then the Processing Model from Simple; and then Simple. We may
                        release after Pure ODD is integrated, or try to get the other two components
                        in before the next release. JC argues for getting Pure ODD right, and then
                        while testing that (i.e. ensuring it all works well on every platform)
                        adding in the processing model documentation elements. Adding in TEI Simple
                        as a separate release of a new exemplar using those once they are in place. </p>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
                    Spring Face to Face?
                    </head><list style="ul">
<item>HC asks if we agree the Fall one should be in Vienna with the
                            Conference. SM: that’s what I am going to suggest. I have already
                            contacted the organisers concerning this and opportunities. I am not
                            sure about the exact dates of the conference, yet.</item>
<item>SB suggests Fall should be in Vienna, but that we explicitly reject
                            the idea the Council <hi style="bold">always</hi> meets in conjunction
                            with MM. </item>
<item>Agreement to Vienna seems general. SM will continue inquiries and
                            report back on the status.</item>
<item>EM volunteers to host the Spring FtF at Brown if no-one else wants to
                            host it. </item>
<item>PFS suggests that he is willing and should be able to host in Michigan
                            even though he’s not on Council from next year.</item>
<item>JC reminds Council that it doesn’t have to be one of our institutions
                            and if there is another institution which would benefit from the influx
                            of people for a ‘TEI Day’ or similar that should be an option.</item>
<item>Re timing: should be done with a Doodle Poll. HC will set one
                            up.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
                    Jenkins Boxes
                    </head><list style="ul">
<item>At the FtF we decided to align all Jinks configurations and create
                            some subdomains on tei-c.org for them. The Apache virtual host configs
                            have now been set up, so IR has been asked to point these:<list style="ul">
<item>jenkins.tei-c.org -&gt; Victoria Jenkins</item>
<item>jenkins2.tei-c.org -&gt; Paderborn Jenkins</item>
<item>Along with location-specific subdomains for explicit
                                    comparison (jenkins-victoria.tei-c.org,
                                    jenkins-oxford.tei-c.org, jenkins-paderborn.tei-c.org). </item>
<item>We could add other stable jenkinses as desired.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>JC suggests waiting for integration of pure ODD; then using the
                            jenkins.tei-c.org address will future-proof it since we can always
                            change that DNS to point to a working location. (Unless of course paths
                            on Jenkins jobs change or something.)</item>
<item>Once these are working, a change needs to be made to the spec and
                            chapter files which currently point to a (wrong) Oxford URI for their
                            schema. Ticket #1408 <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1408"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1408</hi></ref> created,
                            assigned to SB</item>
<item>16.04 script —if it works–write documentation for it. MH could work
                            on it and pass it on to EB to see if she can get it to work
                            (experimental Jenkins setup in Pittsburgh)</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
                    Candidates for Chair for 2016?
                    </head><list style="ul">
<item>Elections for chair coming up; members encourage HC to stand again,
                            but new members are also encouraged to stand. The election happens in
                            January. HC reports that it’s a reasonable but not a crushing amount of
                            work.</item>
<item>JC reminds new council members that there is no requirement for lots
                            of familiarity with technical TEI aspects, and that the council chair is
                            more of the administrator of Council business. See also the Council FAQ
                                <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-Council-FAQ"><hi style="underline color(1155CC)">http://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-Council-FAQ</hi></ref>
                            which has a section on duties of the chair. So new members should not
                            feel reluctant to stand, it can be better if we have a friendly election
                            rather than an acclamation.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>&gt;
                    Farewell to departing members (HC)
                    </head><list style="ul">
<item>Council thanks MH, PFS, FC, SG for their service.</item>
<item>FC :I want to express my thanks to all Council members. It has been
                            great to be part of this lively community. I wish all the best to all of
                            you especially to new members. I hope I will have the chance to join
                            Council again in the future. </item>
<item>MH reiterated his desire to continue working on TEI things as a member
                            of the community.</item>
<item>Welcome to new members (MT, EB, EM, MS)<list style="ul">
<item>Mentors and Mentees:<list style="ul">
<item>SB mentors EB</item>
<item>JC mentors MS</item>
<item>LB mentors MT</item>
<item>HC is everybody’s git mentor</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
<p>Issues with getting minutes up on website / TEI website issues generally.
                        [Kevin Hawkins reports via separate communication that the CMS is now so out
                        of date that he only manages to do it with an old machine with an
                        out-of-date OS and software he keeps for that purpose.]</p>
</div>
</div>
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>