<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2015-04"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2015-04" when="2015-04-24">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>24 April 2015</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM068</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21924</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		<!-- <div class="teiheader"><filedesc><titlestmt><title></title><author>TEI Council</author></titlestmt><editionstmt><edition><date>2015-04-24 13:00 UTC</date></edition></editionstmt><publicationstmt>
<p>Council minutes</p>
</publicationstmt><sourcedesc><p>Converted from a Word document</p>
<p>            </sourcedesc></filedesc><encodingdesc><appinfo><application id="doxtotei" ident="TEI_fromDOCX" version="2.15.0"><label>DOCX to TEI</label>
                </application></appinfo></encodingdesc><revisiondesc><listchange><change><date>2015-05-21T13:59:24Z</date><name>unknown author</name></change></listchange></revisiondesc></div> -->
<!--<p><front><titlepage><doctitle><titlepart type="Title"><anchor id="h.qhdbzydohs2b"/>Teleconference
                        2015-04-24 13:00 UTC</titlepart></doctitle></titlepage></p>
<p><a href="https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g3tdpgo4o3drx6su6wude3gr2qa"><hi class="underline color(1155cc)">https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g3tdpgo4o3drx6su6wude3gr2qa</hi></a></p>
<p>        </front></p>-->
<div><head>
                Present:</head>
<p>Syd Bauman (SB)</p>
<p>Hugh Cayless (HC)</p>
<p>Martin Holmes (MH)</p>
<p>Stefan Majewski (SM)</p>
<p>Paul Schaffner (PFS)</p>
<p>Stefanie Gehrke (SG) </p>
<p>Peter Stadler (PWS)</p>
<p>Fabio Ciotti (FC)</p>
<p>Raff Viglianti (RV) (left at 13:39)</p>
<p><hi style="underline">Apologies</hi></p>
<p>James Cummings (JC)</p>
<p>Lou Burnard (LB)</p>
<p>Call started @ ~13:03 and ended @ ~13:54 UTC.</p>
</div>
<div><head> id="h.8mabg2cjk34i"&gt;
                Agenda
                </head><list style="ul">
<item>Release 2.8.1? (MH) (See ticket <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/749/">http://sourceforge.net/p/tei/bugs/749/</ref>) </item>
<item>2015 Nominating Committee (need 2 volunteers from Council)</item>
<item>Transcription of Spoken Language Draft followup (HC)</item>
<item>standoff discussion (PWS) (see <ref target="https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec">Laurent‚Äôs
                        repo</ref>)</item>
<item>Terminology (see <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/482/">FR 482</ref>) (FC)</item>
<item>Prep for May F2F</item>
<item>Ticket review</item>
<item>Other business?</item>
</list>
<div><head>
                    Release 2.8.1?</head>
<p>MH: Didn‚Äôt add predeclare attribute, so this is a legitimate bug, but nobody
                        else has reported problems. The Oxygen 17 release is coming up and an update
                        might mess up the TEI plugin for them. <hi style="bold">Action: SB to look at
                            749 and evaluate. </hi>However, SB intends to get local build of P5
                        working, first. </p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Nominating Committee</head>
<p>Board would like two members of Council on the Nominating Committee.
                        Preferably someone who is not up for election this year, or who has chosen
                        not to run this year. </p>
<p>Tentative volunteers: HC and SM.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Transcription of Spoken Language Draft followup (HC)</head>
<p>ISO is working on a document that is not yet public; when it‚Äôs ready, Laurent
                        Romary will share it with us for discussion.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Standoff discussion</head>
<p>PWS has worked with Laurent on polishing the materials in his repo. There‚Äôs a
                        need for more work, examples etc. There has also been some overlap between
                        this and the spoken language work. Laurent is really just waiting for the
                        go-ahead from Council to produce a full draft. SB proposes calling the
                        element ‚Äúldb‚Äù (for Linked Data Block). SB also suggests adding listChange to
                        the content model. Action on PWS to meet with Laurent and try to have
                        standoff ready for review by the F2F.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Terminology</head>
<p>FC suggests we skype Laurent in during the F2F
                            if possible. Action on HC to arrange.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    May F2F</head>
<p>PFS has requested rooms from the hotel, waiting for confirmation. PFS to get
                        back to us soon (by posting to tei-council list).</p>
<p>SB asks if we will continue our tradition of technical presentations?
                        Suggests MH present on Oxygen plugin. MH agrees.</p>
<p>MH: Should we look at deprecating support for DTDs? They are more of a source
                        for bugs than a useful part of TEI. If we can all agree that we would like
                        to phase them out at some point, we could set a point X years in advance and
                        announce it. This will go on the agenda for discussion.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Googlehangout for our meetings</head>
<p>Pros: chat window, easy to set up, free, has video (nice turn-taking),
                        screenshare </p>
<p>Cons: we lost LB due to lack of bandwidth (but that might affect any VoIP?);
                        lost RV due to bandwidth, too. Occasional loss of connectivity. Less taking
                        of minutes due to video distraction üòâ GoogleDoc flags both ‚ÄúGoogleHangout‚Äù
                        and ‚ÄúGooglehangout‚Äù as misspelled.</p>
<p>SM points out GH has a call-in feature, too. We may try that, either directly
                        or using conference call as a participant.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
                    Tickets:</head>
<p>briefly discussed <ref target="https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/546/">https://sourceforge.net/p/tei/feature-requests/546/</ref> , assigned to SB.</p>
</div>
</div>
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>