<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2016-05"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2016-05" when="2016-05-26">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>26 May 2016</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM080</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21936</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div>
		
		<p rend="head">Present</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>HC</item>
<item>EB</item>
<item>MS</item>
<item>RV</item>
<item>LB (left 13:15)</item>
<item>EM</item>
<item>MT (left 13:11)</item>
<item>SB (joined 13:12; left 13:53)</item>
<item>PS</item>
</list>
<p rend="head">Apologies</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>JC</item>
<item>SM</item>
</list>
<div>
<p>Agenda and minutes</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Japanese SIG approval (see <ref target="https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B0acbcG32rCuMGRwTzluNm90dEU">https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B0acbcG32rCuMGRwTzluNm90dEU </ref>): Discussion of whether this should be an East Asian SIG
No objection to new SIG, suggest they change name/remit to East Asian Languages SIG. Action on HC to send mail. The last sentence of the proposal talks about expansion to EA languages.</item>
<item>TEI Simple status? MM wants to deliver a final report to Mellon…
<list style="ul">
<item>LB: Council’s job is to produce a new exemplar; not to act as marketing agency for Simple. LB will work on expediting the production of the exemplar. Work on Stylesheets to support processing model display. SB and HC are committed to work on that. Action on HC to write to MM.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Stylesheets
<list style="ul">
<item>What’s the best way to approach this? RV: monthly meetings to cover architecture, tackling bugs, etc.</item>
<item>HC suggests starting with the architecture</item>
<item>RV: We need a chair to guide us through the first few sessions.</item>
<item>SB: HC, JC, MH, and SB are probably in the best position to suggest how to proceed. SB has volunteered to be the logistical chair, but we don’t have an academic chair: Someone with a more comprehensive understanding of what the Stylesheets were for. Can we ask Martin Holmes to repeat his Overview of the Stylesheets presentation.</item>
<item>RV: Perhaps the logistical chair just needs to get us started? We’ll figure it out!</item>
<item>Action on SB: Form the Stylesheets Working Group/Task Force/SIG(?) E-mail everyone and get us started. Invite Martin. “Everyone” can be everyone who has been contributing to the GitHub repo (not restricted to Council).</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Update on CETEIcean.js—TEI in the browser.
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/CETEIcean">https://github.com/TEIC/CETEIcean</ref></item>
<item><ref target="http://teic.github.io/TCW/tcw22.html">http://teic.github.io/TCW/tcw22.html </ref>= the document in <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/tree/dev/Documents/TCW">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/tree/dev/Documents/TCW</ref></item>
<item>Consider use cases</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Pure ODD and transformation of ODD <hi style="i">sequence</hi> into rng <hi style="i">group</hi>? And sometimes it should be <hi style="i">list</hi>. This causes things to break and indicates that there are two types of sequence. Do we fix this in the Pure ODD?
<list style="ul">
<item>Action on RF to file an Issue on the Stylesheets repo to investigate further ODD specification? HC: can it be done programmatically? RV: not necessarily. Action on RV: file issues on Stylesheets and on TEI and link them, noting that we aren’t sure where this is best solved. Try Stylesheets first!</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>SB working on the content model of lg, and hasn’t yet thrown in the towel, but may have by next telecon…</item>
<item>Translatathon (TEI Conference in Vienna):
<list style="ul">
<item>MS a bit nervous about this; Need to contact MM about doing this as a workshop</item>
<item>EM suggests we need some infrastructure to be built. HC: A spreadsheet of terms/phrases pulled from element specs. Double-check with LB and MH.</item>
<item>PS suggests the German Council members will have a separate conf call and try to organize</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>EM commends to our attention the message to the list about free-standing attributes</item>
</list>
</div>
	</div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>