<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2016-03"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2016-03" when="2016-03-31">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>31 March 2016</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM078</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p><p>Converted from a Word document</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21934</change><change><date>2016-04-11T16:41:33Z</date><name>unknown author</name></change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body>
		
<div><head>
         13:00 UTC</head>
<div><head>
          Present</head>
<list style="ul">
<item>Hugh Cayless (HAC)</item>
<item>Elli Mylonas (EM)</item>
<item>Syd Bauman (SB),</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EBB), </item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV), </item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS), </item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT), </item>
<item>Peter Stadler (PWS)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Stefan Majewski (SM)</item>
<item>And special guest Martin Holmes (MH, left @ 13:56)</item>
</list>
</div>
<div><head>
          Apologies</head>
<p>Lou Burnard (LB)</p>
<p>Meeting started on time, ended ~14:24Z.</p>
</div>
<div><head>
          Agenda</head>
<div><head> id="h.e6dvsib84wkr"&gt;
            Release 3.0.0 debrief
            </head><list style="ul">
<item>What documentation updates do we need?<list style="ul">
<item>Current TCW setup is really not working!</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Can we cope better with the interdependencies between the Stylesheets and
                TEI?</item>
<item>Is Git Flow branching working for us?</item>
<item>Things to consider:<list style="ul">
<item>multi-day instead of 1-day<list style="ul">
<item>JC reminds us one reason we have 1-day process: so dates look the same
                        on output. Might look weird to have build date be 1 April 2016 and release
                        date be 5 April 2016 or something. We don’t want someone announcing it *for*
                        us.</item>
<item>MH (and others) questions why that matters?</item>
<item>HC points out that “release” is when you push to master</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>complete preparation of readme-3.X.Y well in advance (as we’ve always asked
                    for)</item>
<item>common editing of TCW22 (see above)</item>
<item>stream-line burden on poor Mr. Jenkins</item>
<item>Pushing to SourceForge should happen at the very end?</item>
<item>Inefficiency of code pushing to SourceForge downloading multiple zip
                    files…</item>
<item>Don’t build anything on release day. We need a build day and a release day.
                    Discussion: Good to have a couple of days in between. </item>
<item>Need three days: Readme day, Build day, and Release day. JC: The whole point
                    of the ‘freezing’/’chilling’ bit a couple weeks before was to have that whole
                    period be a Readme.</item>
<item>Readme day should be a conference call with multiple council members
                    involved with writing and review.</item>
<item>Name the release branch just “release”, and still nuke the release branch
                    after release. </item>
<item>By the time of Release Day, the release branch should already be folded into
                    master.</item>
<item>Editing TCW-22! Down with open CMS. We need to edit this in a collab
                    environment. Wiki? WordPress? Google Docs? (Only the last of these is truly
                    collaborative)</item>
<item>SB suggests moving TCW 22 to current GitHub repository for now, while we
                    debate a more permanent home post website .
                      <hi style="bold">Action on SB to do so, moving to </hi><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/tree/dev/Documents"><hi style="underline color(1155cc)">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/tree/dev/Documents</hi></ref> (TCW/
                    subfolder)</item>
<item>Move of TEI website to WordPress is supposedly imminent. JC: note that we’ve
                    been told this before, but will Board be consulting Council about this? (Yes)
                    Our migration of TCW-22 should be consistent with this(?)</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Followup: Fixing .mobi download; No Kindle mobi version on Martin’s Jenkins yet,
                but he is setting it up today/tomorrow. </item>
<item>Should we drop Kindle support? A policy decision for Council in re-examining all
                its outputs? </item>
</list>
<list style="ul">
<item>Debian packages<list style="ul">
<item>SM: not much progress; can host Debian packages; some concerns about
                    bandwidth. Good if these were on tei-c.org. JC: packages.tei-c.org could be
                    located anywhere. (or some other subdomain, better suggestions?) We can’t rely
                    on Oxford for hosting things like this though, sadly, given the current
                    institutional climate.</item>
<item>Debian packages can be built on any Debian machine. Signing and releasing
                    depends on a single named person/organisation: one private release key. Should
                    that private key be with one release technician? And not leave the machine with
                    the key<list style="ul">
<item>Encrypted keys can be shared between trusted individuals with <ref target="https://keybase.io/"><hi style="underline color(1155cc)">https://keybase.io/</hi></ref> e.g. <ref target="https://keybase.io/raffazizzi"><hi style="underline color(1155cc)">https://keybase.io/raffazizzi</hi></ref></item>
<item><ref target="http://teijenkins.hcmc.uvic.ca/job/TEIP5-master/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/P5/"><hi style="underline color(1155cc)">http://teijenkins.hcmc.uvic.ca/job/TEIP5-master/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/P5/</hi></ref>
                        has the packages</item>
<item>SM: We have a new signing key from last Council meeting, so we don’t
                        have to impersonate Sebastian. </item>
<item>Suggestion to have DNS packages.tei-c.org for the moment forward to SM’s
                        machine, later will acutally point to tei-c.org.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>JC: At the moment tei-c.org is running CentOS 6.3 which means that all the
                    debian/ubuntu packaging tools are not available there.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
<p>Martin Mueller asks whether we could do some sort of session at the Conference that
              goes beyond the Annual Report</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>RV: another open session like last year?</item>
<item>SB thinks that’s a different issue.</item>
<item>P6 talk? Q&amp;A? </item>
<item>SB (and EBB): Try a Q&amp;A in which we ask the audience what they think about a
                set of things we want to go to the TEI list with anyway. This could be very useful
                to us–we did something like this in the past (2005 in Bulgaria) and it was
                immensely beneficial to Council.</item>
<item>Presenting something particular about TEI?</item>
<item>What is it like to work on a Council? What does it take?</item>
</list>
<p>Marjorie Burghart asks if we might consider a Council meeting in Prague in Spring 2017</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>MT: good for me, perhaps around the time of XML Prague (mid-February or so) (SB,
                JC, PWS, and EBB would love to go to XML Prague, too)</item>
<item>XML Prague might be interested in a presentation from us: contact the conference
                committee? Check with the oXygen and eXist people? </item>
<item>MT: pre-conference TEI workshop? Post-conference Council mtg</item>
</list>
<p>F2F Prep: what do we want to get on the agenda?</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>TEI Simple: MT and JC to prepare an overview for F2F listing decisions to be
                made to bring this customisation exemplar under Council support. We’ve already
                agreed to do so but can modify Simple in the process. [JC]</item>
<item>TEI ProcMod implementation: do we want to maintain any reference implementation?
                [MT]</item>
<item>Should we have some ‘strategic planning’ part of the f2f, so as not to use up
                all the time on short-perspective issues? [MT]</item>
</list>
</div></div>
</div>
	</body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>