<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2016-04"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2016-04" from="2016-04-25" to="2016-04-27">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Vienna</placeName>, <date>25–27 April 2016</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM079</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p><p>Converted from a Word document</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21935</change><change><label>DOCX to TEI</label>
      2016-05-26T12:28:29ZHugh Cayless</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body>
	
<div><head>TEI Council Minutes: Face to Face in Providence
2016-04-25/27Meeting started @ 04-25 ~09:40 with:</head>
<list style="ul">
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV)</item>
<item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC), chairing Monday Morning</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EB)</item>
<item>Peter Statler (PS)</item>
<item>Elli Mylonas (EM), local organizer</item>
<item>Stefan Majewski (SM) (departed 04-27 ~15:50),</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT)</item>
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC) (arrived late at 04-25 12:45. Thank you American Airlines)</item>
</list>
<p>Meeting ended 04-27 ~16:55</p>
<div>
<p>Action Items Summary</p>
<table>

<row>
<cell>Action</cell>
<cell>Responsibility</cell>
<cell>Due Date</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>reach out to TeX community — can they help us maintain the TEI-&gt;LaTeX-&gt;PDF
pipeline?</cell>
<cell>LB</cell>
<cell>2016-06-01</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>organize virtual Stylesheets sessions, either semi-monthly or quarterly</cell>
<cell>SB</cell>
<cell>2016-06-01</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>Fix the (LaTeX) build</cell>
<cell>SM</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>move Roma tickets from TEIC/TEI to TEIC/Roma</cell>
<cell>PS</cell>
<cell>2016-05-12</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>Add to TCW-22 a step to check on OTHER repos for release-blocking issues:
stylesheets, oxgarage, Roma, oXygen framework, any TEI-C repos that have current
issue.</cell>
<cell>HC, release tech group</cell>
<cell>2016-06-01</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>ask Ian Rifkin to make a subdomain in TEI-C for debian release packages. Name
for repo? packages.tei-c.org. To point to a packages/ folder on tei-c. Needs about
3–4 gigabytes.</cell>
<cell>HC</cell>
<cell>2016-07-01</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>try removing the dependency on Oxygen (via commenting out the task in the
makefile).</cell>
<cell>MH</cell>
<cell>2016-06-01</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>locate the missing correspDesc commits</cell>
<cell>PS</cell>
<cell>ASAP</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>See if XML documentation can be displayed on GitHub</cell>
<cell>RV, HC</cell>
<cell>2016-06-01</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>Revise TEI Simple documentation language.</cell>
<cell>LB</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>Modify stylesheets so as to process processing model elements in reference
documentation for an ODD;</cell>
<cell>SB, HC</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>develop a proposal for how and where ProcMod should be incorporated into
TEI-C/Stylesheets/ repository.</cell>
<cell>MT</cell>
<cell>2016-07-01</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>make a JavaScript version of Roma! Will interface with oxGarage for
processing.</cell>
<cell>RV</cell>
<cell>Next F2F</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>try looking at the PHP and fix the old sanity checker and remove it from the
user view until it might be fixed.</cell>
<cell>HC</cell>
<cell>2016-07-01</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>ask JF, or on SB to ask MSMcQ for a pointer to papers from Darmstadt — MSMcQ
thinks there are none available on the web (they are planning a printed monograph,
though)</cell>
<cell>EM, SB</cell>
<cell>DONE</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>ask JF about upcoming book on modelling</cell>
<cell>LB</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>send Council a pointer to papers from Brown modelling conference — <ref target="http://www.wwp.northeastern.edu/outreach/conference/kodm2012/">here is index page; few papers, but lots of
videos!</ref></cell>
<cell>SB</cell>
<cell>DONE</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>eport to EP that Council members are interested in exploring methods of
formalising the abstract model (though less so in the formats in which this might be
serialized). Done, but don’t know if paper was submitted.</cell>
<cell>HC</cell>
<cell>DONE</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>Investigate the dates of real conference start.</cell>
<cell>HC</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>get Council to understand Stylesheets more than they do now, by any reasonable
means</cell>
<cell>HC</cell>
</row>

</table>
</div>
<div>
<p>Agenda</p>
<div>
<p>Day 1, Mon 04-25 09:30–17:00</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>09:30–10:00: Agenda setting</item>
<item>The future of PDF generation. LaTeX, etc.</item>
<item>SM explains that PDF generation, while not broken, has problems and is quite
fragile. E.g.:</item>
<item>Font dependencies</item>
<item>Stylesheet maintenance</item>
<item>Suggestion #1 (MT): create a test suite to exercise that which we know is
fragile</item>
<item>We have both a political and a practical issue:</item>
<item>Stylesheet author is no longer with us;</item>
<item>Why are we producing PDF, anyway?</item>
<item>Because TEI-&gt;PDF is a desirable set of stylesheets to have
anyway</item>
<item>We have both LaTeX and XSLFO generation paths (the latter in
oXygen)</item>
<item>There seems to be general agreement within council that PDF
generation is important and the council needs to maintain it. (See <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1357">GH #1357</ref>)</item>
<item>Action on LB (by 2016-06-01): reach out to TeX
community — can they help us maintain the TEI-&gt;LaTeX-&gt;PDF
pipeline?</item>
<item>PS: or hire it out?</item>
<item>Or rewrite with XSLFO? TEI-&gt;PDF (nb we already have some FO
stylesheets written by Sebastian, which is what Oxygen uses)</item>
<item>Discussion: Are there enough people in our community who know
XSL-FO?</item>
<item>SB: Make it an iceberg we all chip at or one we all try to grok in
its entirety?</item>
<item>JC: Let’s have a meeting or something to do in-depth training for
Stylesheets and fixing bits of them. But not just one or two people, but
most of Council.</item>
<item>SB: Spend one day each in the next three F2Fs on the Stylesheets
together. Plus dedicated conference calls in addition to our regular
business on Stylesheets.</item>
<item>Action on SB (by 2016-06-01): to organize
virtual Stylesheets sessions, either semi-monthly or quarterly</item>
<item>Action on SM: Fix the (LaTeX)
build</item>
</list>
<p> </p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Main current problem is just that underlying GNU/Linux system no longer includes
the same font we used for Japanese; all we have to do is switch to the new one, so
this sounds like a solvable problem.</item>
<item>Use of Processing Model driven transformations of the guidelines is a
possibility.</item>
<item>LB: how best should we devote our limited technical resources?</item>
<item>SB: We should maintain PDF ourselves as best we can, and not outsource it. For
the long term, presumably we do this through XSL-FO and not LaTeX. We have already
put some work into this and have a starting point with XSL-FO</item>
</list>
<p> </p>
<p>Action on PS by 2016-05-12: move Roma tickets from TEIC/TEI to
TEIC/Roma</p>
<p> </p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Action on HC and release tech group by 2016-06-01: Add
to TCW-22 a step to check on OTHER repos for release-blocking issues: stylesheets,
oxgarage, Roma, oXygen framework, any TEI-C repos that have current issue.</item>
<item>TICKET PROCESSING (See below)</item>
</list>
<p> </p>
<p>Lunch in the meeting room: 12:00 (actual time: 12:40)</p>
<p> </p>
<list style="ul">
<item>13:30: Jenkins / build process reformation discussion (Martin Holmes to join @
13:15 — actual time ~13:25)</item>
<item>Jenkinses and Build processes: the Stylesheets are dependent on downloading
a copy of the fully-expanded ODD from the last release and/or using a local
copy; the TEI build is dependent on the Stylesheets. The way the Stylesheets
tests run tend to flag up insignificant changes as errors (language changes in
specs, e.g.) and sometimes to conceal new bugs, because of the reliance on an
older copy of the ODD.</item>
<item>Something Must Be Done about the testing regime. Consider going through
and pruning/altering all the tests. Can we do better than comparing files
with old results character-by-character?</item>
<item>Ubuntu 16.04 LTS just came out, and that’s a long-term release, so it’ll
last for several years. Martin has made a start on that.</item>
<item>MH has done some reorganization on his own server:</item>
<item>Stylesheets-dev, TEIP5-dev, etc.</item>
<item>Stylesheets, TEIP5, etc. track the master branch</item>
<item>New Jenkins repo: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Jenkins">https://github.com/TEIC/Jenkins</ref></item>
<item>Using Java 8, which is the default on Ubuntu 16.04</item>
<item>Dependency on TEI packages, MH doesn’t like that and thinks we should move
away from it;</item>
<item>Stylesheets dependency on Oxygen, which it gets via the TEI package; we
think the actual dependency is on Doxygen, which is an Open Source</item>
<item>PDF build of the guidelines depends on specific Japanese fonts, which new
Ubuntu doesn’t have</item>
<item>Manually install new fonts and change dependency in Stylesheets</item>
<item>PS brings up idea of Docker wrapper for TEI Jenkins; MH asks if he
should try to make a Docker setup; PS suggests first figure out the Jenkins
install script, because Docker would use it anyway.</item>
<item>MH will install new fonts on his Jenkins and try it out.</item>
<item>MH and SM to work on Stylesheets LaTeX process</item>
<item>Debian packages and general distribution of releases. Homebrew support might be
nice too. They are now two releases out of date (v 2.8.1). SM: Actually, the
debian packages *are* built, working packages that are current but not distributed
yet: A problem because 1) we need to decide where to put them, 2) how to
reference the location where they are put, and 3) we need a method for signing
it (used to be signed by Sebastian.</item>
<item>Special package repository on TEI-C? Signing has to be handled by a local
machine with access to debian.</item>
<item>We shouldn’t have a signing key on the Jenkins server–too open to anyone.</item>
<item>Package list from last f2f <ref target="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/1w3ObgtqxpwYLrfaF-N0SPTt5X3ITmg2iLa5ZevAg3eE/edit?usp=drive_web">https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/1w3ObgtqxpwYLrfaF-N0SPTt5X3ITmg2iLa5ZevAg3eE/edit?usp=drive_web</ref></item>
<item>Action on HC (by 2016-07-01): to ask ??? to make a
subdomain in TEI-C for debian release packages. Name for repo?
packages.tei-c.org. To point to a packages/ folder on tei-c. Needs about 3–4
gigabytes.</item>
<item>Ideally packages.tei-c.org/deb for Debian packages</item>
<item>MH: We seem to missing oXygen packages in our current packages list. Is
there something on the Oxford server for oXygen? JC: I don’t see any oxygen
packages there that you don’t have. LB: we decided oXygen packages were
redundant. SM looked at doxygen–it seems that Sebastian used oXygen b/c doxygen
doesn’t support XSLT out of the box. MH: Do we need to write an intermediate
XSLT that doxygen can ingest—probably wouldn’t be too hard. SB (and others): too
much time and effort for a redundant documentation system. MH: Why don’t we
comment out that task in the makefile and see what happens? (General
agreement).</item>
<item>SB: What’s most important is for us to provide both good internal documentation (for programmers) and (separately) good external documentation (for users); we shouldn’t have to
worry about how this internal documentation for the programmer is leveraged.</item>
<item>HC: We really need better documentation for the stylesheets!</item>
<item>Action on MH by 2016-06-01: try
removing the dependency (via commenting out the task in the makefile).</item>
<item>More TICKET PROCESSING</item>
<item>Lost Guidelines material – HC</item>
<item>HC: A GitHub issue in between commits between HC and PS. Find those commits.
Merges are risky.</item>
<item>Action on PS (ASAP) to locate the specific commits in
question.</item>
<item>Need to discuss protocols for branching and merging so we have better
branching discipline. After a merge, go and check to see if the latest stuff
wasn’t lost. And pull changes from dev into a branch before we merge back.</item>
<item>See what we’ve already posted here re GitHub procedures: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/blob/dev/Documents/Git-README.md">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/blob/dev/Documents/Git-README.md</ref></item>
<item>Always merge changes from dev into your branch before you begin working in
the branch. Keep the branches up to date. This ensures that the only difference
between your branch and the dev is your changes.</item>
<item>Where should this documentation go? (Also where should the TCW stuff go?)
Migration of our documentation? SB: Keep it in TEI! LB: Ideally, use GitHub
pages and TEI boilerplate in those pages (if it’ll take
it). Action on RV (2015-06-01) to see if this will work.</item>
<item>A “NoXSL” solution with TEI Boilerplate CSS (demo): <ref target="http://raffazizzi.github.io/TEIditto/">http://raffazizzi.github.io/TEIditto/</ref></item>
</list>
<p> </p>
</div>
<div>
<p>Day 2, Tue 04-26, 09:00–17:00</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Agenda review</item>
<item>Elections Committee—need a volunteer not running for re-election</item>
<item>Elections committee is looking for a volunteer, who is not standing for
re-election</item>
<item>EM volunteers</item>
<item>TEI Simple</item>
<item>TEI Simple: MT and JC have prepared an overview for F2F listing decisions to
be made to bring this customisation exemplar under Council support. We’ve
already agreed to do so but can modify Simple in the process. The prepared
document is at <ref target="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/1w3ObgtqxpwYLrfaF-N0SPTt5X3ITmg2iLa5ZevAg3eE/edit?usp=drive_web">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E1ZrN93QJttiUvP1NzqR05o1uUqX_-eHWFX_z42BPow/edit#heading=h.ualhk2xiuvbp</ref></item>
<item>JC: Simple was made by looking at a lot of text archives and inventorying
the minimal tagset needed to represent them. This is similar to how TEI Lite was
made, hence the similarities between them, but they are significantly different.
One aspect that is different is use of processing model. RV: ProcMod may be
problematic because it doesn’t go far enough; LB: ProcMod could do a lot more.
JC: Better to start with a simple (no pun intended) processing model and then
build on that then try to create the perfect complete versio ab initio. HC: Are
we talking about supporting just the Processing Model as it appears in Simple
and only for a web target? LB: For example, the customization only supports CSS.
MT: The current ProcMod XSLT is not intended to be all-encompassing, but the
ProcMod shouldn’t be limited. Argues against having a reference implementation;
current one is a prototype, not a “reference implementation”. The XQuery
implementation is better, but already goes beyond what we permit. LB: Are you
saying it allows TEI Processing Models that are invalid? MT: Yes, it extends the
spec.PS and HC: Consider what a “reference implementation” should do. We
are the only ones who could define a reference implementation. LB: disagrees
that we should define a reference implementation and thinks we should drop the
term. LB and HC: Our responsibility is to set a standard for conformance. SB:
But we can’t be tracking down everything that isn’t using the TEI namespace. MT
and JC: Experimental implementations shouldn’t have to be TEI conformant–they
can be made conformant later. LB: Why aren’t they TEI conformant already–why no
feature requests yet? MT: It’s not mature enough yet. SB: It’s not an imperative
on people outside the community to give back their implementations to TEI.
(Though nice when they do) RV: ODD is a customization system and a schema
definition language, as well as documentation for humans and machines (as it
lets us generate Guidelines). It’s not really a way of transforming your
texts—Should transformation language really be part of a schema language in
the first place? If it’s only needed to discuss in documentation, that’s
different from setting instructions for transformation. JC: It should be
documentation of some ways in which one *might* transform: it’s documenting of
intent. SB and JC: Sebastian’s hope was that ODD would grow to document
processing models. How separate is the processing model XSLT from Stylesheets?
MT: They’re completely separate at the moment. JC: There’s no dependency on
existing stylesheets. SB: What happens when users start using this and want
output? JC: It works like this: XSLT looks at your ODD and produces XSLT that
matches the documentation of processing models in your ODD, this can then be
used to transform documents or acts as a starting point for the transformation
process. PS: That’s useful, and people like it, but it’s not the core of our
work. We should work on the documentation. SB: How is the documentation
representing the Simple customization? JC: Not really doing it well–that needs
to be represented.HC: How does this affect the rendering of the Guidelines?
JC: It can only indicate something intended for output.JC and MT: Think of
“processing engine” instead of “processing model”. The model is what is
documented in the ODD. It is documentation, human and machine readable in the
good tradition of ODD. The implementations are “processing engines” which do
something with it.</item>
<item>Relation of TEI Simple to TEI Lite? TEI Lite is older, but not deprecated.
Is there concern that MartinM based so much of the prose on TEI Lite, which
makes it harder for us to differentiate these for users? EB: We need
meta-documentation of thee all the different customization options available.
JC: We could provide something explaining context at the top of the TEI Simple
documentation, there is some there, but it could be improved/expanded.</item>
<item>Review of the documentation in TEI Simple, its difference from TEI Lite
suggests some parts might quickly (though it does feature a publication date),
and could use revision. LB would be best person to work on revision.</item>
<item>Issue with no standardization of TEI Header in TEI Simple. LB: Two different
Simple projects will have incompatible TEI headers. JC: This was by design. TEI
Simple only simplifies the content of <gi>text</gi>. Partly because the project
only had so much time, and partly because they agreed that headers were so
different for different needs that it is unrealistic to make a simple header
that all the targets for simple will benefit from.</item>
<item>Action on LB: Revise TEI Simple documentation
language.</item>
<item>Action on HC and SB: Modify stylesheets so as to
process processing model elements in reference documentation for an ODD; note
this is different from an implementation of a processing model engine.</item>
<item>LB: Feature requests: Don’t entertain feature requests for new elements in
Simple. Feature requests should be about the ProcMod.</item>
<item>EM: We should encourage people to make their own customizations, and direct
people to resources on how to do that. LB and EM: The intro to Simple should
send people to information on how to customize for themselves if they don’t want
Simple’s particular customization.</item>
<item>JC: Suggests that we should always entertain feature requests but after it
has been published for a while then as with other exemplars feature requests
should be treated very conservatively. SB agrees with JC (in this and many other
things!) JC insists this is minuted for future reference since it is so
rare.</item>
<item>HC to add procmod implementation to Stylesheets?
Important to make explicit that this is a best effort implementation for Simple.</item>
<item>Action on MT (by 2016-07-01): To
develop a proposal for how and where ProcMod should be incorporated into
TEI-C/Stylesheets/ repository.</item>
<item>LB has done some testing of ProcMod already, available <ref target="https://github.com/lb42/lb42-testprocmod">on GitHub</ref></item>
<item>Processing Model -TEI ProcMod implementation: do we want to maintain the draft
reference implementation that we have?</item>
<item>Discussed above with TEI Simple, we really should talk about these things
separately but always veer into discussing processing model when discussing
simple as a customization.</item>
</list>
<p> </p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Ticket processing</item>
</list>
<p> </p>
<p>Lunch out: 12:30</p>
<p> </p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Ticket processing</item>
<item>Strategic Planning:</item>
<item>Use of ODD outside the community</item>
<item>MEI, <ref target="https://www.w3.org/community/music-notation/">W3C Music Notation Community
Group</ref> (?), JATS (?), ITS, …</item>
<item>RV: The Music Notation Community is using ODD successfully. Is there a
way to present ODD for use outside of TEI, as a product of the TEI Council?
Discussion: What would this really involve? Some explanation that this can
be used for presenting other schemas.</item>
<item>Possible actions points:</item>
<item>Extend prose on tei-c.org ODD page to indicate that ODD can be used
to define languages other than the TEI</item>
<item>Produce examples and point to existing examples</item>
<item>PDF generation process, XSLT maintenance in general:</item>
<item>Would be useful to make Stylesheets test suite more efficient</item>
<item>Outsourcing the coding of tools (e.g. XSLFO for PDF guidelines):</item>
<item>Ask for help from community?</item>
<item>How to monitor process to maintain tools after creation?</item>
<item>Question of whether W3C is still supporting XSLFO or not.</item>
<item>Last update 2015-07: <ref target="https://www.w3.org/standards/techs/xsl#w3c_all">https://www.w3.org/standards/techs/xsl#w3c_all</ref></item>
<item>Current consensus is that PDF generation is currently fixed, so this is
not particularly urgent, and being punted.</item>
<item>What to do about Roma? RV volunteers to attempt a javascript version (better
than Byzantium) — Action on RV by next F2F: to make a
JavaScript version of Roma! Will interface with oxGarage for processing. JC
volunteers to help RV in testing and ODD matters.</item>
<item>kill the sanity checker? JC: It’s not working because of pure ODD and
issues with PHP code—to much trouble to fix? Pure ODD is causing the sanity
checker to break. RV might approach sanity checking differently.</item>
<item>Action on HC by 2016-07-01 to try looking at the
PHP and fix the old sanity checker and remove it from the user view until it
might be fixed.</item>
<item>Elena Pierazzo asks about Council’s opinion of the TEI Next stuff she talked
about in Lyon. She’s considering submitting an abstract for the Fall meeting,
and pondering how to take it further. <ref target="140">http://tei2015.huma-num.fr/en/papers/#140</ref></item>
<item>Action on EM to ask JF, or on SB to ask MSMcQ for a
pointer to papers from Darmstadt — MSMcQ thinks there are none available on
the web (they are planning a printed monograph, though)</item>
<item>Action on LB to ask JF about upcoming book on
modelling</item>
<item>Action on SB to send Council a
pointer to papers from Brown modelling conference — <ref target="http://www.wwp.northeastern.edu/outreach/conference/kodm2012/">here is index page; few papers, but lots
of videos!</ref></item>
<item>Action on HC to report to EP that Council members
are interested in exploring methods of formalising the abstract model
(though less so in the formats in which this might be serialized).</item>
</list>
<p> </p>
</div>
<div>
<p>Day 3, Wed 04-27, 09:00–13:00</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Commemoration of Sebastian Patrick Quintus Rahtz</item>
<item>Council mourns the loss of one of its best and brightest, and expresses its
condolences to the Rahtz family. A silence is held followed by members of the
council being sarcastic to each other in the affectionate manner of
Sebastian.</item>
<item>Fall F2F</item>
<item>Are we settled on Vienna? Logistics?</item>
<item>TEI Conference is scheduled for 2016-09-26/30; so we will plan for Sun 25ish
to Wed 28ish, depending on when the conference begins.</item>
<item>Action on HC Investigate the dates
of real conference start.</item>
<item>Ticket processing</item>
</list>
<p>Lunch out: 12:30</p>
<p> </p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Ticket processing</item>
<item>Stylesheet discussion 2–3 hours (HC)</item>
<item>Council intended to do this but ran out of time. Action on
HC to get Council to understand Stylesheets more than they do now, by any
reasonable means.</item>
</list>
<p> </p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
	</body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>