<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2016-02"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2016-02" when="2016-02-25">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>25 February 2016</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM077</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p><p>Converted from a Word document</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-27">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-21933</change><change><date>2016-03-31T14:41:58Z</date><name>unknown author</name></change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body>
	<div><head>
         14:00 UTC</head>
<p>Present</p><list style="ul">
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EBB)</item>
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT)</item>
<item>Elli Mylonas (EM)</item>
<item>Peter Stadler (PWS)</item>
<item>Lou Burnard (LB)</item>
<item>Syd Bauman (SB, ~14:20)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV)</item>
</list>
<p>Apologies</p><list style="ul">
<item>Stefan Majewski (SM)</item>
</list>
<div><head>
          Agenda:</head>
<div><head>
            Processing Model and Simple
            </head><list type="unordered">
<item><ref target="http://teic.github.io/TEI/">http://teic.github.io/TEI/</ref> has
                current state of procmod branch</item>
<item>Does this go in 3.0.0 or wait?<list type="unordered">
<item>go ahead for Processing Model elements</item>
<item>Simple: wait until later release</item>
<item>Pending meeting between MT, LB, and JC this weekend; they will report back
                    and we will decide how to proceed<list type="unordered">
<item>Raff will test and write a long feedback e-mail on Fri. prior to
                        meeting</item>
<item>there is some introductory material (leaning more towards eXist-db
                        implementation, but may be helpful <ref target="http://showcases.exist-db.org/exist/apps/tei-simple/doc/documentation.xml?odd=documentation.odd">http://showcases.exist-db.org/exist/apps/tei-simple/doc/documentation.xml?odd=documentation.odd</ref>)</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>review emails and outstanding questions on the subject</item>
<item>TEI can be agnostic as to implementation of it, merely provide the elements
                    to do so, trying not to limit things too much prematurely (eg being cautious
                    with closed value lists and similar).</item>
<item>Some are already using it in production, but limited scope of application
                    (see <ref target="http://showcases.exist-db.org/exist/apps/Showcases/index.html">http://showcases.exist-db.org/exist/apps/Showcases/index.html</ref> and EEBO
                    &amp; Shakespeare’s Plays app linked from there)</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
          <head>  Release 3.0.0 (<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/milestones/Guidelines-3.0.0">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/milestones/Guidelines-3.0.0</ref>)</head>
            <list type="unordered">
<item>Blockers other than Jenkins building master (<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1411">#1411</ref>)? Anything missing
                from the milestone?<list type="unordered">
<item>something about P5 now using pure ODD passim et seriatim would be nice </item>
<item>What’s the state of the documentation? <list type="unordered">
<item>integration of tutorial with description</item>
<item>James writing up a new ODD documenting common things people do in
                        customising which will also exemplify some of the new Pure ODD features.
                        He’ll be making this into a blog post with links to ODD and generated
                        documentation.</item>
<item>Lou has teaching materials; as have Syd and Julia</item>
<item>Everyone review the ODD chapter!</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/539">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/539</ref> (annotatedU) and <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/511">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/511</ref> really need to be dealt with in
                    3.0 (see <ref target="https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0acbcG32rCuLWxVUFNoRjhnbTQ/view?usp=sharing">https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0acbcG32rCuLWxVUFNoRjhnbTQ/view?usp=sharing</ref>
                    — will go away) <list type="unordered">
<item>Lou looks at the tickets 539 and 511 and document, decides if ticket
                        should be green.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Do we expect any Roma oddities when switching to PureODD?<list type="unordered">
<item>HAC: I’d be surprised if there weren’t something! It should just work
                        since uses underlying updated stylesheets. But uploading a Pure ODD might
                        cause problems (at present, attribute datatypes don’t appear correctly
                        because underlying stylesheet library needs updating)</item>
<item>Roma would give old-style ODD: doesn’t know how to produce the content
                        model</item>
<item>Roma just lets you change classes; must use an existing content
                        model</item>
<item>need to replace current eXist db of P5</item>
<item>List of debian packages: <ref target="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1w3ObgtqxpwYLrfaF-N0SPTt5X3ITmg2iLa5ZevAg3eE/edit#gid=0">https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1w3ObgtqxpwYLrfaF-N0SPTt5X3ITmg2iLa5ZevAg3eE/edit#gid=0</ref></item>
<item>What to do with Roma and oXgarage: big discussion for next
                        face-to-face</item>
<item>oXgarage stylesheets: are they updated on new release automagically?—JC
                        isn’t sure but thinks they might use local ones. JC thinks the
                        tei-install.sh script can install the release of guidelines in right place,
                        but also be used to update Roma. While tei-database-rebuild.sh updates the
                        eXist database used by Roma. JC thinks oXgarage has to be updated manually.
                        But this needs to be checked. JC has added a fork of sebastian’s OxGarage
                        repo to the TEIC organisation on github. Action on $releaseTechnicians:
                        Check before release whether scripts are up to date and how each part gets
                        updated with new stylesheets and guidelines.</item>
<item>Can we continue to support debian packages? Action on SB by 2016-02-28:
                        ask Stefan.</item>
<item>SB asked about <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1331">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1331</ref><list type="unordered">
<item>JC and others had commented on council list.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Choose a date &amp; release technician<list type="unordered">
<item>there are other roles involved such as ‘debian package maintainer’ who
                    should be doing these things? It is noted that SM (not present) was last looking
                    at debian package creation and management.</item>
<item>Release technicians: Syd and Elisa on March 22nd with a freeze date of
                    Tuesday March 8.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Release documentation / procedures has had some updating and certainly needs
                more <ref target="/Activities/Council/Working/tcw22.xml">http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Working/tcw22.xml</ref></item>
<item>Should freeze be delayed a bit to see outcome of LB/MT/JC Processing Model
                documentation discussion?<hi>  (Consensus: Yes)</hi></item>
<item><hi>Builds:</hi> need a release X.X.X build and a master build for both TEI and
                  Stylesheets.</item>
<item><hi>Action on
                HC:</hi> Make the release branches or help release technician to do so, etc.</item>
<item><hi> Action on HC:</hi> after we have release branches: tell Martin what
                  we’re planning re release and Jenkins</item>
</list>
</div></div>
</div>
	</body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>