<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2017-08"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2017-08" when="2017-08-31">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>31 August 2017</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM093</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-29036</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body>
		
		<div>
<p>Attendees</p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Elli Mylonas (EM)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV)</item>
<item>Sarah Stanley (SS)</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EB)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
<item>Alejandro Bia (AB)</item>
</list>
<div type="h2"><head>Logistics</head><p>Call started @ ~13:07Z; finished @ ~14:24Z.</p></div>
<div type="h2"><head>Agenda</head><p> </p><list style="ul">
<item>Elections. <ref target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php/TEI-C_and_TAPAS_Call_for_Nominations_2017">Nominations </ref>are open for the Council, Board, and TAPAS.
<list style="ul">
<item>If your term is up, I hope you’ll consider standing again — terms expiring: EB, JC, EM, MS, PS, MT (if you think they should run again, nominate them!)</item>
<item>Please think about nominating good candidates</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>MH @ Victoria F2F? — agreed, yes, invite him.</item>
<item>What are we going to do next? I.e. what high-level objectives should Council focus on?
<list style="ul">
<item>Usability / Technical Debt
<list style="ul">
<item>GLs looking old (Awaiting new website to integrate with?)</item>
<item>Stylesheets
<list style="ul">
<item>There’s a lot lurking in the Stylesheets that should be brought into line with new stuff in TEI over the last 2+ years.
<list style="ul">
<item>SB mentions the project to work on replicating the GLs-generating parts of the Stylesheets as a separate thing; Going through and updating the code, focusing on keeping the outputs the same (“rub-a-dub-dub”). RV: develop coding guidelines for Stylesheets. Make a “lab journal” as we go through the cleaning process. XSLT 3.0? Is it worth it? SB: Maps (the ! operator) might make refactoring easier. Likewise the arrow operator. JC: Might be too much pressure on our users at this stage. HC: The cleaning might involve a pause in bug-fixing.
<list style="ul">
<item>Ideally integrate with a test job on Jenkins that would compare output of any cleaning commits to output of current stylesheets</item>
<item>Document decisions (either ahead of time or as you go) to help keep coding conventions consistent</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Update so they output to current TEI specs</item>
<item>Documentation:
<list style="ul">
<item>to help people adapt the stylesheets</item>
<item>to guide the community to use stylesheets for particular kinds of work</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>XSLT 3.0/XQuery 3.1 is a thing now. Should we upgrade? — General consensus seems to be it is a good idea, but we are in no rush, and since some users may not have easy access we should do either rub-a-dub-dub or rewrite first in 2.0, then move to 3 in the future. (When more users have easy access to 3.) Suggestion by EM to survey the TEI-L, see if there is a significant population that could not use 3. JC: Try doing the GLs generation in XSLT 3.0?</item>
<item>Need more easy how-to
<list style="ul">
<item>EM: More documentation to make, e.g., using stylesheets easier for users. RV: That, but also code conventions for our XSLT to make contributions easier.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Pushing on RomaJS
<list style="ul">
<item>RV: update + <ref target="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wENuQ3u2HT7fq0X9j6Olj69OF8PQqhXWprT_Tq-gG9U/edit?usp=sharing">short explanation of architecture</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>OxGarage will need some attention in the future too.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Extending existing work
<list style="ul">
<item>Extensions to Pure ODD? (See <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1663">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1663 </ref>)</item>
<item>More work on the Processing Model?</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>More Internationalisation / fostering more TEI work outside the North American/Western European sphere
<list style="ul">
<item>Spreadsheet with translations from Google Translator <ref target="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iVPMNGXj7p_XUAHW34LJsr6_owVSAq8bdDWYsVI8TAo/edit#gid=826339698">https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iVPMNGXj7p_XUAHW34LJsr6_owVSAq8bdDWYsVI8TAo/edit#gid=826339698</ref></item>
<item>EM: Is there a way to get more people involved (and search for funding) for a roadmap to internationalization of the TEI? JC: Board has been encouraging. HC: This relates to refactoring the Guidelines. Council’s task might be to start planning the roadmap and who else to involve. Need to start a working group.</item>
<item>SB: Perhaps schedule a separate special Council call for this. MS: Those with language skills should look at the spreadsheet above to comment.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Something entirely new? No, let’s get on top of tickets and existing software, etc.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Reminder of dates and arrangements for November Face to face
<list style="ul">
<item>Dates of the Members’ Meeting and Conference: 2017-11-11/15; thus we will be meeting 2017-11-16/18. (Probably start at lunchtime on Thu 11-16.)</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Scheduling 1st face-to-face of 2018 — align w/ XML Prague again? (It will probably be in early Feb, again, but I don’t know.)
<list style="ul">
<item>Seems to be consensus that, in general, early in the year is a good idea, and this would be a good opportunity. However, given that we’re meeting in mid-Nov, it would be awfully close, essentially only 1 month. No decision made.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Other business? RV points out chap 11 still needs work.</item>
<item>IIIF working group – emails from Ben Brumfield and Nick Laiacona. Also BPTL needs info
<list style="ul">
<item>EM: met with Ben, Nick and others at the DH2017 conference in Montreal. Ben and Nick offered to write up some examples of integration of IIIF with TEI. EM suggested they write this up in their GitHub repo, and invite TEI Council to the GitHub, + community to comment.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list></div>
</div>
	</body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>