<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2017-05"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2017-05" when="2017-05-25">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>25 May 2017</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM091</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-29032</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body>
		
	
<div>
<p><hi style="b">Present:</hi></p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EB)</item>
<item>Sarah Stanley (SS)</item>
<item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT)</item>
<item>Elli Mylonas (EM)</item>
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Alex Bia (AB)</item>
</list>
<p><hi style="b">Apologies:</hi></p>
<list style="ul">
<item>Raffaele Viglianti (RV)</item>
<item>Peter Stadler (PS)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
</list>
<div type="h3"><head>Agenda / Notes</head><p>Meeting started @ ~13:03Z.</p><list style="ul">
<item>Ticket Triage
<list style="ul">
<item>Is the following ok?</item>
</list>
</item>
</list><div>
<table>

<row>
<cell>Jun</cell>
<cell>Jul</cell>
<cell>Aug</cell>
<cell>Sep</cell>
<cell>Oct</cell>
<cell>Nov</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>RV</cell>
<cell>SB</cell>
<cell>SS</cell>
<cell>JC</cell>
<cell>PS</cell>
<cell>MS</cell>
</row>

</table>
<list style="ul">
<item>Ticket Review
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1461">New “unit” element</ref>
<list style="ul">
<item>After initial skepticism, there seems to be support for this. The main issue is whether to adopt Laurent’s suggestion of @norm (and the other <ref target="https://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ref-att.lexicographic.html">att.lexicographic </ref>attributes?), or some flavor of @unit, or something new. Lou suggested @si, but LR argues they will want non-SI units too. Is this just the common problem of needing to refer to some taxonomy? Or is it more subtle than that?</item>
<item>Council says yes to <gi>unit</gi>, and thinks we should import @unit from att.measurement (but not all the other attributes). EM will be responsible.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&amp;q=is%3Aopen%20is%3Aissue%20no%3Aassignee%20-label%3A%22Status%3A%20Blocked%22%20-label%3A%22Status%3A%20Reconsider%20For%20P6%22%20">Unassigned Tickets</ref>
<list style="ul">
<item>HC: I’ve been through and assigned most of these. The remaining ones are things I find mysterious or which can maybe just be closed with 5 minutes review by the group.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Nail down release date / timeline. SS and SB are the release technicians. Add issues to <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/milestone/3">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/milestone/3</ref>
<list style="ul">
<item>JC has added a bunch of his assigned issues to this milestone to encourage him to do as many as possible before then. He’ll remove those he doesn’t get to just before we ‘freeze’ changes. 😉</item>
<item>SB &amp; SS have agreed on:
<list style="ul">
<item>Refrigeration starts: Mon 06-26</item>
<item>Freeze starts: Mon 07-03</item>
<item>Release day: Mon 07-10</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Reminder: refrigeration= prose open for modification, only urgent changes to schemas; freeze= only urgent changes to prose, no changes to schemas except release blockers</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Meetings/heading=h.2b46lynisgd">SIG proposal “Graph </ref>Technologies [Note: I’d find it very interesting to have a SIG on “Graph Technologies”. But in my opinion, the goals of the SIG should be expanded, e.g.(+) as far as I understand, the proposal is to model TEI 1:1 in graphs. Another approach is to extract statements from TEI, model these statements in RDF -&gt; LOD. I would be happy to see that represented through the SIG as well (+) and I agree with James that the SIG should take the existing graphs/networks/tree module into account, take position on it, probably work on improving it, etc.] [Note: I agree with Martina. ;-)]<ref target="https://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Meetings/heading=h.2b46lynisgd"> ”</ref>
<list style="ul">
<item>HC has emailed Andreas that Council approves the SIG, with some caveats and recommendations. Have not heard back yet. Council members should feel free to comment on the linked document.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Lou would appreciate any further feedback on his evolving document about TEI Conformance (<ref target="http://lb42.github.io/W/conformance.html">http://lb42.github.io/W/conformance.html </ref>)</item>
<item>MT asks about <ref target="https://www.archives.gov/nhprc/announcement/publishingcoops">https://www.archives.gov/nhprc/announcement/publishingcoops</ref>
<list style="ul">
<item>HC is involved in this, so if you have questions, ask!</item>
<item>MT thinks that TEI and TEI PM is worth championing if anyone’s involved in these cooperatives and MT personally and eXist would be interested in partnering where suitable, not just for the future implementations but in the initial planning stages</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="b">Jenkins-oxford.tei-c.org</hi>: This is down owing to a security upgrade, since it will disappear in August, JC says he isn’t going to put it back up. (We are all using jenkins.tei-c.org which is jenkins-victoria.tei-c.org.) He will be archiving stuff on tei.it.ox.ac.uk somewhere before he disappears from Oxford in August.</item>
<item>Meeting ended @ ~14:18Z.</item>
</list></div></div>
</div>
	</body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>