<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2017-11"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2017-11" from="2017-11-16" to="2017-11-18">TEI Technical
     Council ftf meeting : <placeName>Victoria</placeName>, <date>16‚Äì18 November
     2017</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM096</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-29042</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body>
	
		<head>TEI Technical Council Fall F2F, 2017-11-16/18 Parkside Hotel, Victoria, BC</head>		<milestone unit="unknown" rend="rule"/>
	

	<div>
		
		<div>
<head>Discussion topics (numbered)</head>
<list style="ol">
<item>Stylesheets Issues, Stylesheets Issues, Stylesheets Issues</item>
<item>OxGarage</item>
<item>Roma(+JS)</item>
<item>Spring F2F</item>
<item>TEI/Stylesheets Issues that need extended discussions
<list style="ol">
<item>@mode in ODD see¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272">https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Chapter 11 tickets (see¬†<ref target="https://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/PH.html">http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/PH.html¬†</ref>)</item>
<item>LingSIG tickets (PS to prepare those)</item>
<item><ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/15-GAMkL6FUJziY4M1rAb6EBOx871abFXjMLGmfMHJKI/edit?usp=sharing">Docker proposal</ref></item>
<item>Council communication channels: use more Slack (but can we make our Slack open for others to read?)</item>
<item>Should SG still cover RELAX NG? (would be good to have LB‚Äôs input)</item>
<item>New Saxon &amp; oXygen plug-in.¬†Breakout Group (MH, SB, JC)</item>
<item>Elections stuff</item>
<item>Processing Model extensions¬†Saturday morning</item>
<item>MT: Publication SIG proposal</item>
<item>JC suggests that 1 day of all TEI Council Face to Face meetings be open to any TEI member. i.e. they should be allowed to attend, contribute thoughts/ideas but not have voting rights if something is voted on.</item>
<item>Periodicals SIG proposal</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>F2F Agenda</head>

<div>
<head><hi style="strong">Nov. 16</hi></head>
<div>
<head><hi style="strong">Morning</hi></head>

<p>Started @ ~09:15.</p>
<div>
<head><hi style="b">#15</hi>: opening Council meetings or parts of them</head>
<p>JC derails the agenda of the meeting for the first 20 minutes by suggesting an ‚Äòeasy‚Äô topic to council members and thus the meeting descends into 20 minutes of chaos and destruction. (Praise Cthulhu!)¬†He does this by suggesting that he wants to open up council business so people can see what goes on by possibly having it be tradition that one day or morning/afternoon of council meetings is open to any TEI member. Broad brainstorming on the role of the council and its practices re openness, transparency, bringing kind of expertise required on the Council (or for the maintenance of TEI) out to the world.</p>
<p>
JC: in favor of this because this opens up what the Council does, it‚Äôs a way to bring in new people by showing what we do. EB-this is a way of cultivating wisdom in the community ‚Äì special kind of event ‚Äì for ex. A workshop SB: likes idea, but wants decision to be part of meeting planning. EM: Bring council work to the fore during the Members‚Äô meeting. Schedule conference sessions where we present discussions about important issues: to clarify the way Council deliberates.</p>
<p>MH: Workshop: Council could select 2 or 3 tickets. Go through process of cloning the repo, work on solving the tickets and generating a pull request during the meeting, perhaps.</p>
<p>JC: problem of perception of ‚Äúhigh priesthood‚Äù working in exclusion</p>
<p>RV: we need time to work, and opening Council session to community loses time we need.Have some community-facing workshop or session associated with any F2F meeting.</p>
<p><hi style="b">[ACTION] on HC</hi>: will raise this with the board.</p>
</div>
<div>
<head>Summary:</head>
<list style="ol">
<item>General agreement with JC‚Äôs proposal that we try to open part of the Council meeting ‚Äî not hard policy, but by tradition &amp; custom rather than by requirement.</item>
<item>Program committee reserves panel slot for the Council to discuss real issues for discussion and present them to the membership, discuss motivation, problems, possible solutions, constraints ‚Äì needs to be discussed with the conference committee</item>
<item>Workshop: Council member(s) could propose issues for discussion &amp; deliberation to provide a guided introduction to Council work.</item>
</list>
<p>MT: Are we having problems with any below, if so, to what extent and what are possible actions to take</p>
<p><hi style="b">Transparency:</hi></p>
<list>
<item>opening the meeting, Council records, issue tracking and public discussion</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head><hi style="b">#12: elections stuff</hi></head>
<p><hi style="b">Council member rotation:</hi></p>
<list>
<item>to what extent it is desirable,</item>
<item>are we facilitating it enough or not,</item>
<item>are there any obstacles and what are they
<list>
<item>Not enough candidates considering running</item>
<item>Low chances of being elected for non-high profile TEI practitioners [help them write their bios/statements better]</item>
<item>Can we keep ex-Council members involved and working?</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Length of terms of Council ‚Äî JC suggested 3 year terms to the Board.
<list>
<item>No one seems to be taking notes about this bit.</item>
<item>EM: We maybe don‚Äôt need to change policies, but change our behavior‚Äìto help encourage smooth transitions and guide people to understand Council better?)</item>
<item>Various council members wonder if the russians have hacked the TEI election. EB: The hackers need to be assigned difficult tickets! üôÇ</item>
<item>Have we stopped talking about 3 year terms?</item>
<item>Council hand-raising vote indicates we‚Äôre in favor of moving to 3-year terms‚Äìa suggestion from Council to Board. Not in favor of changing election to mandate new member on Council if not chosen by votes only because it doesn‚Äôt know whether this was a problem or not. Council will investigate (MT leading) to see if this is a real problem based on the data..</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Council Chair: Hugh limited to two terms.. HC would like to step down as Chair in Jan 2018 in order to have a year of overlap with his replacement.</item>
</list>
<p><hi style="b">Community participation</hi></p>
<list>
<item>Encouraging community participation in Council work</item>
</list>
<p><hi style="b">Transmission of knowledge essential to TEI maintenance &amp; development</hi></p>
<list>
<item>Workshop (perhaps a regular-ish feat linked to f2f meetings)</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#14 ‚Äì Publications SIG:</head>
<p>MT with Julia Flanders and Gimena del Rio Riande: to discuss publication options for bringing TEI ODD Processing Model to TAPAS. MH: interested in join as long as it‚Äôs not focused only on the processing model. JC: Concentration should be on publication technologies. Magda urged to write proposal and submit. We all think it‚Äôs a great idea. JC warns that name is ambiguous‚Äìrethink it. (i.e. it isn‚Äôt about ‚Äòpublications‚Äô like journals, or the publishing industry, it is about publishing tei.</p>
</div>
<div>
<head><hi style="b">#16 Council also says yes, approving Periodicals SIG proposal.</hi></head>
</div>
<div>
<head>Related: Does there need to be a Council Liaison for this and other SIGs?</head>
<p>Discussion: Council should make sure new SIG leaders actively reaches out to periodicals TEI projects not represented at meeting(s). EM points out the organizers should be encouraged to reach out to existing projects doing newspapers with TEI. JC: Notes that really the Chair of Council already liaises with the SIGs.</p>
<p>PS suggests to actively approach people/groups who are preparing some larger proposals (to the Guidelines) and name some Liaison from Council</p>
<p>EB: should SIG appoint liaison to communicate to Council (instead of other way around)? Discussion: that‚Äôs really the job of the SIG convener. ‚ÄúAnything you would like me to bring up at the Council meeting.‚Äù Council liaising is difficult to maintain‚Ä¶(What are the logistics?) EB: asks about slack channel agenda item, whether this is related.</p>
<p>SB protests that managing SIGs is not Council‚Äôs role.</p>
<p>PS: We shouldn‚Äôt wait for SIGs to approach us, but actively communicate with SIGs.</p>
<p>HC: Do we need a special label for tickets to be brought to SIG attention?</p>
<p>PS: Council members could check in with inactive issues AND SIGs</p>
<p>JC: Plenty of SIGs don‚Äôt always propose tickets, and we don‚Äôt necessarily need them to stir up new tickets all the time. They are often birds-of-a-feather with similar interests. Not all SIGs‚Äô¬†<hi style="i">raison d‚Äôetre</hi>¬†is to propose tickets and improve the Guidelines. SIGs like that are perfectly fine also.</p>
<p>HC: Council members could open special tickets could be points of contact for connecting with people/ encouraging people with nascent proposals for Council to act on. Translate concepts to actionable tickets.</p>
<p>What to do about gigantic messy discussions on tickets? Maybe we need better/stable/sustainable places to flesh out ideas.</p>
<list>
<item>Not Google docs so much as Wikis.</item>
<item>Text or Markdown or TEI files committed to GitHub repo.</item>
</list>
<p>Website right now is in no condition to help. Site migration is a serious problem right now.</p>
<p>Resolution: we don‚Äôt really need SIG liaisons. SIGs are centers of activity, but not the only ones, emerging from TEI community. Council members just need to be aware of what‚Äôs going on and open tickets accordingly. Suggestion that we have standing SIG ‚Äúwhat‚Äôs up with the SIGS‚Äù agenda item. Keep an eye on good mechanisms for communication!</p>
</div>
<div>
<head>#1: Battleplan for Stylesheets!!!!</head>
<p>Need to</p>
<list>
<item>Stop fires</item>
<item>Architectural questions: how to maintain Stylesheets for the long term?</item>
</list>
<p>RV: What major issues with current architecture?</p>
<p>HC: They are ingenious and impenetrable: takes a long time to figure out what has to be fixed and where?</p>
<p>If we had ‚Äúsmaller bits that did smaller things‚Äù that might be easier.</p>
<p>RV: Maybe we don‚Äôt need keys any more</p>
<p>JC: remove stuff that‚Äôs legacy of XSL 1</p>
<p>MH: When they worked on JTEI, they broke free of Stylesheets architecture, to Sebastian‚Äôs concern‚Äìbut it was just too difficult to work in that framework.</p>
<p>Markdown &lt;‚Äì&gt; TEI different from DocX . Need to understand the differences.</p>
<p>SB: Worth remembering that converting to DocX isn‚Äôt really Council‚Äôs responsibility.</p>
<p>MT: Can we use ODD proc model to produce the Guidelines? JC: That was Sebastian‚Äôs intention. RV: We‚Äôd need to be able to do this outside of eXist</p>
<p>SB: ‚ÄúRub-a-dub-dub project‚Äù: clean up stylesheets for consistent variable names, consistent location of function definitions. Perhaps prioritize that and look at the results‚Äìis it easier to maintain a cleaned up version. JC: Due date? MT: Clean up, or better direction to do a rewrite?</p>
<p>SB: Perhaps rewrite only the bits we need.</p>
<p>EB: One goal of ‚Äúrub-a-dub-dub‚Äù was to understand the code and its interdependencies better, identify the outdated parts.</p>
<p>PS: Hard to tell what‚Äôs Council‚Äôs responsibility or not here: People rely on these transformations.</p>
<p>JC: ISO paid TEI to produce a seamless transformation to/from DocX. MH: Not clear whose responsibility that was to maintain, but lots of people use.</p>
<p>MH: We need to start with odd2odds.xsl</p>
<p>RV: try rewriting odd2odds from scratch‚Äìconsidering the probs we‚Äôve had with modes, etc.</p>
<p>TEI Website parts that aren‚Äôt Guidelines‚Äìabout to be handled by WordPress?</p>
<p>Summary: MH and RV want rewrite. SB wants clean-up first‚Äìcould be more efficient.;</p>
<p>Functions need documentation of input, output, expected behavior. JC: Lots of this is provided by the auto-generated documentation. Consistent code format would help improve this.</p>
<p>Formatting, variable naming, key naming.</p>
<p>SB could work alone, but EB maintains there ought to be lots of us watching and checking and making sure the documentation is clear. JC: Otherwise we create conditions for a new Sebastian.</p>
<p><hi style="b">Council suggestion is: [ACTION] on SB:¬†</hi>Syd works on cleaning and documenting odd2odd.xsl stylesheets reports back in January. Works with frequent pull requests so there is code review. This is a test case to see what the scope of this work is. If he can do this in a reasonable time, it‚Äôs a good sign, others can start to work as well on other stylesheets. Also, Syd might report back on some workflows.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div>
<head>Afternoon</head>
<p>12:00‚Äì13:00: talk with Christian-Emil Ore about Ontology issues:¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/327">327¬†</ref>,¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1655">1655¬†</ref>,¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/367">367¬†</ref>, ‚Ä¶?</p>
<p>We (TEI) are missing elements to describe physical objects and abstract objects. <gi>msDesc</gi> does this for manuscripts.</p>
<p>So one method is to see if these elements can be generalized. Thus clean up TEI a bit w/ respect to ontological categories.</p>
<p>Another method would be try to make a hierarchy of some TEI elements.</p>
<list>
<item>Reframe current class system?
<list>
<item>Add ‚Äúphilosophical‚Äù class system that supplements current structural system.</item>
<item>‚ÄúInheritance‚Äù system</item>
<item>Mapping TEI to CIDOC (use <gi>equiv</gi>?): context: Christian has used CIDOC as a model to view/comprehend TEI.</item>
<item>8 classes:
<list>
<item>Persons</item>
<item>Events</item>
<item>Place</item>
<item>Time / date</item>
<item>Physical object</item>
<item>Conceptual object</item>
<item>Names</item>
<item>Types</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Ontological mapping doesn‚Äôt match TEI prosopography hierarchy, but can be mapped from it.</item>
<item>Abstract object : Christian‚Äôs example: intellectual property rights</item>
<item>What are the use cases for this?</item>
<item>Taxonomy of editorial, authorial, etc. elements?
<list>
<item>Could contribute to conformance</item>
<item>Formalizing abstract model</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>msDesc: Description of ms object to appear in an object-ography‚Äìan object container, or a history container‚Ä¶</item>
<item>Separating out discussions of listObject &amp; listEvent (we still want to be able to distinguish bw lists of objects &amp; the events that happen to them)</item>
<item>What‚Äôs wanted: Change the TEI to express places, objects, etc. in a more ‚Äúontologically sound‚Äù way</item>
<item>Relevant issue to be reopened (or open a new one with reference to original):<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/327">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/327</ref>
<list>
<item><hi style="b">[ACTION] on JC</hi>¬†has re-opened and self-assigned this to at least come up with a draft proposal for <gi>listObject</gi> <gi>objectName</gi> and <gi>object</gi> elements.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Rationalize content models for place &amp; person (could be rabbit hole), and there is already a ticket about it.
<list>
<item>Find low hanging fruit instead</item>
<item>Should we review elementSpecs and add equivalences w/ @equiv?</item>
<item>Mapping to CIDoc wouldn‚Äôt ensure by itself consistency of TEI abstract model</item>
<item>Consult Fabio Ciotti‚Äìprior mapping efforts?</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Summary: C.-E.O. will have a look into how to introduce object, object description, conceptual object and conceptual object description, and how they compare to msDesc also 2nd thing, look into hierarchy of TEI classes and how it compares with conceptual content of elements.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
<p>Lunch: MH and SB suggest the Old Spaghetti Factory. The Ghost of Lou revulses in horror. RV refuses to return to this monstrosity after council visited it in this instance.</p>
<p>MT gathers data on elections in 2002-2017 period and gives some tentative answers:</p>
<list>
<item>94 individuals running up for the Council, 35 women</item>
<item>43 individuals have been elected, 14 women</item>
<item><ref target="http://admin.exist-db.org:44455/exist/apps/tei-elections/index.html">http://admin.exist-db.org:44455/exist/apps/tei-elections/index.html¬†</ref>Photo by¬†<ref target="http://www.fourframesphotobooth.com/">http://www.fourframesphotobooth.com/</ref></item>
</list>
<div>
<head>Day 1 Groups and Stylesheets tickets:</head>
<list>
<item>Group A (SB, MH, JC),¬†<hi style="i">FIXED THE BUILD</hi>, 174, 175, 294</item>
<item>Group B (EB, MT, PS, MS)¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/264">264¬†</ref>,¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/261">261¬†</ref>,¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1672">1672</ref></item>
<item>Group C (SS, EM, RV, HC)¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/161">161¬†</ref>,¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/123">123¬†</ref>,¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/147">147</ref></item>
</list>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div>
<head>Nov. 17</head>
<div>
<head><hi style="strong">Morning</hi></head>
<p>The council sang Happy Birthday to its chair, HC.</p>
<div>
<head>Discussion</head>
<list>
<item>Should we still cover RELAX NG in¬†<ref target="https://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/SG.html">SG¬†</ref>?
<list>
<item>Add information on PureODD ‚Äì add new section. Or mention and point to the chapter.</item>
<item>Should cover RELAX NG.</item>
<item>How much do we want to overhaul this chapter? EB
<list>
<item>Probably not much because of its popularity SB</item>
<item><hi style="b">[ACTION] on EB</hi>¬†will do ‚Äì light editing, addition re ODD</item>
<item>Open issue for this:¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1708">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1708</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#4: Spring face to face meeting discussion</head>
<list>
<item>If Cologne, start Fri 23rd till Monday Feb. 26 in conjunction with German DH conference. Have it run before the conference‚Äìconference ends Fri. 2018-03-02.</item>
<item>Paderborn an option around Mar 5</item>
<item>JC could facilitate a meeting in Newcastle and might try to tempt some council members to Newcastle if they are in Europe.</item>
<item>MT happy to find a place in Warsaw but since we have many candidates already let‚Äôs reserve that for next year</item>
<item><hi style="b">Decision: Friday 23 February 2018 ‚Äì Monday 26 February 2018.</hi></item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#2: Oxgarage:</head>
<list>
<item>we aren‚Äôt as familiar with its workings as we should be. MT: It could be much shorter and easier to maintain in XQuery ‚Äì could split out schema creation part from format generation parts (used by people outside TEI Council) ‚Äì</item>
<item>Possibilities:
<list>
<item>OxGarage alongside simpler eXist wrapper for ODD-related stylesheets to provide customization API (primarily for Roma, but also the world)</item>
<item>Same as above + try and salvage Java code from OxGarage and integrate in eXist app via Java bindings</item>
<item>JC noted that the¬†<ref target="http://www.man.poznan.pl/online/en/">http://www.man.poznan.pl/online/en/¬†</ref>were the people responsible for building the original ENRICH-EGE¬†<ref target="https://sourceforge.net/projects/enrich-ege/?source=directory">https://sourceforge.net/projects/enrich-ege/?source=directory¬†</ref>which we developed into OxGarage. They may be willing to look at it again for us, but I doubt it.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>PS: OxGarage actually does its job well and it‚Äôs good to show stability in regards to TEI transformations to other formats.</item>
<item>RV suggests to keep OxGarage but still create a separate ‚ÄúODD customization API‚Äù (basically solution (i) above).</item>
<item>PS: or just fix that bug that RV found of RomaJS</item>
<item><hi style="b">[ACTION] on PS and RV</hi>¬†to locate the OxGarage bug¬†<hi style="b">(we found a workaround on Nov 18)</hi>¬†and figure out validation, but wait for a second bug before developing a new ODD customization API. MT requests you please take notes on what you find. MH: triage the Stylesheets tickets on OxGarage.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#9: Slack</head>
<list>
<item>Slack: can it be public? ‚Äî seems to be ‚Äúno‚Äù, but we could make an archive public
<list>
<item>Use it for issue discussion?</item>
<item>We already have 3 channels (TEI-L, tei-council, issue itself)</item>
<item>We can archive it
<list>
<item>Example:¬†<ref target="https://levels.io/slack-export-to-html/">https://levels.io/slack-export-to-html/</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>RV had connected GitHub to #random; group prefers to make a separate channel for git ‚Äî RV did so. Yay.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#11: Oxygen</head>
<list>
<item>SB: New Saxon &amp; oXygen plug-in is needed‚Äìmaybe discuss this in breakout group. MH: Someone on Council needs to be watching the oXygen plugin alongside him.</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#6: Chap. 11</head>
<list>
<item>experiment to outsource to non-Council workgroup. MS shepherds (RV included in correspondence. Be in touch with new convener of MS SIG (McCormick). SB: suggests we organize a workgroup w/ Gerrit. HC: We want to encourage Gerrit and others like him to work with Council members, doing pull requests etc. It does a lot of the modification and improvement work up front, allows Council to review at the pull request stage.</item>
<item><hi style="b">[ACTION] on MS</hi>¬†to email Gerrit and get this started (cc RV, McCormick(?), and Martin de la Iglesia)</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#8: PS:¬†<ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/15-GAMkL6FUJziY4M1rAb6EBOx871abFXjMLGmfMHJKI/edit?usp=sharing">Docker proposal</ref></head>
<list>
<item>Could be built on AWS, or any institution that will host Docker. (MH: UVic won‚Äôt permit Docker.) EB just applied for an account here to build Jenkins at Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, to install Jenkins in Docker. Maybe good for testing stuff! If approved, can add any of us to the account who wants to play with it:¬†<ref target="https://www.psc.edu/images/xsedetraining/BridgesMarch2016/VM_Dockers.pdf">https://www.psc.edu/images/xsedetraining/BridgesMarch2016/VM_Dockers.pdf</ref></item>
<item>See existing containers at¬†<ref target="https://hub.docker.com/r/teic/">https://hub.docker.com/r/teic/</ref></item>
</list>
<p><hi style="b">[ACTION] on PS</hi>: Peter will build the various docker containers. Various people can host.</p>
<p><hi style="b">Day 2 Groups:</hi></p>
</div>
<div>
<head>Group A: (JC, MH, MS, SB)</head>
<list>
<item>TEI Issues:
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/197">Add more elements to att.spanning with schematron constraint</ref>
<list>
<item>closed</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/561">Change description of TEI Header and simplify content model of TEI</ref>
<list>
<item>tweaks to the prose need to be done</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1431">clarify how to encode short-form citations</ref>
<list>
<item>see proposal group C</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1461">Add new element <gi>unit</gi></ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1520">otiose remarks on abbr</ref>
<list>
<item>drop first sentence of the remark</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1540">Remove or rewrite TEI-Minimal</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>Group B: (EB, SS, EM, PS)</head>
<list>
<item>TEI Issues:
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/374">Encoding of Standoff annotations¬†</ref>:¬†punting to PS and Laurent (linkSig ticket)</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/567">Allow <gi>relation</gi> to occur intermittently within parent elements¬†</ref>Can Syd follow up on the backwards-compatibility issues (if there are any) here?</item>
</list>
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1453">`<gi>path</gi>` should exist alongside `<gi>zone</gi>` for non-closed areas in facsimile</ref>
<list>
<item>Discussion: `<gi>zone</gi>` has capacities to demarcate a 2-dimensional area. Note: 1453, 1474, and 1508 are part of a cluster. We could open discussion to ask, ‚ÄúDo we still need this?‚Äù Do we have a need for an @path on zone? In what way is IIIF related/potentially helpful?</item>
<item>Issue: we can draw polygons (closed shapes) in TEI, but don‚Äôt support open paths.</item>
<item>Recommendation: Perhaps we close this ticket until we have more people working on relation between images and text.</item>
<item>What about a child element <gi>pointer</gi> inside <gi>zone</gi>?</item>
<item>FURTHER DISCUSSION: revisit the proposal to handle this with @points: to permit describing an open shape without completing closure.</item>
<item>Possibly @closed=‚Äùyes‚Äù | ‚Äúno‚Äù OR handle with separate @path vs. @points</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1508">zone used with JSON, etc: need examples in Guidelines</ref>
<list>
<item>(Subgroup originally thinks: Give them their attribute (@pointsRef) )</item>
<item>RV: We should ask IIIF group to take a look at this proposal. Interoperability with IIIF might be enhanced by working with this ticket.</item>
<item>Decision: Ask IIIF to weigh in on this ticket.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1524">Schematron inside ODD files should be more precisely specified</ref>
<list>
<item>It is very convenient just to put the schematron information in elementSpec and not add extra markup like &lt;sch:rule&gt; but need to weigh against effort of deriving constraint info. Syd ‚Äì pls address in the meeting.
Decision: reconsidered by SB and MH: close the ticket.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>Group C: (RV, HC, MT)</head>
<list>
<item>TEI Issues:
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/367">rationalize content models of org and place and person</ref>
<list>
<item>Mark status: blocked</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1431">clarify how to encode short-form citations</ref>
<list>
<item>Use &lt;bibl corresp&gt;</item>
<item>See also #1579</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1459">Description of <gi>textNode</gi> is insufficient</ref>
<list>
<item>SB to revise; new ticket for <gi>content</gi></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1514">Expand att.notated to all elements commonly used in linguistic markup: <gi>quote</gi>, <gi>s</gi>, <gi>cl</gi>, <gi>phr</gi>, <gi>w</gi>, <gi>m</gi>, <gi>c</gi>, <gi>seg</gi></ref>
<list>
<item>Made green, prodded AB</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1528">Attribute classes in ‚Äòtei‚Äô when they shouldn‚Äôt be?</ref>
<list>
<item>Possibly just move this class, while doing inventory, too?</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1563">Need to add a check for internal referential integrity on the Guidelines HTML</ref>
<list>
<item>Added MH in hope he‚Äôs willing to help</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
<p>(Got to here by 16:21)</p>
</div>
</div>
<div>
<head>Afternoon</head>
<div>
<head>Group A: (JC, MH, MS, SB)</head>
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1461">Add new element <gi>unit</gi></ref>
<list>
<item>Marked as green</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1540">Remove or rewrite TEI-Minimal</ref>
<list>
<item>Marked as green, do proposal</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1580">add model to schemaSpec</ref>
<list>
<item>Marked as green</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1593">schemaSpec/@source example missing</ref>
<list>
<item>Marked as green</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1625">shouldn‚Äôt each <gi>constraintSpec</gi> (or each <gi>constraint</gi>) map onto a *single* pattern?</ref>
<list>
<item>Marked as green</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1632">egXML spec is mysterious concerning @rend</ref>
<list>
<item>JC to go away and test</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1641">Change structure of supportDesc</ref>
<list>
<item>Asked original poster for a real-life example to work out best solution</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>some¬†[Note: not even sure this needs discussion. I just need to find instances of this flavor of problem and fix them. I think I wanted to ask if we could say referencing position of notes related to examples is a bad practice in the style guide?]<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1654">¬†mix-ups expanding upon examples in specs</ref>
<list>
<item>SS should proceed</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1658"><gi>q</gi> should be allowed in <gi>span</gi></ref>
<list>
<item>Not sure.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1676">shouldn‚Äôt the presence of @target or @cRef be made mandatory on <gi>ref</gi>?</ref>
<list>
<item>No no no, there are plenty of references that are only prose-based, and you do not need to have a target on <gi>ref</gi>; Close.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1697">mode=‚Äùclone‚Äù on *Spec</ref>
<list>
<item>Excellent idea.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1707">How to encode measurement</ref>
<list>
<item>Needs more discussion. Connected to<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1461">¬†#1461¬†</ref>(above)</item>
<item>Green: We‚Äôre go to make a proposal: we like the concept of unitDecl in header; idea of unit as child is problem: we think unitDef is better.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>Group B: (EB, SS, EM, PS)</head>
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1542">Extended Structure for <gi>additions</gi></ref>
<list>
<item>Subgroup: Just use <gi>list</gi> or <gi>msItem</gi> in <gi>msContents</gi>. Address MHolford‚Äôs later comment. Ask James about what he intends.</item>
<item>Decision: change content model to add <gi>additionNote</gi> inside <gi>additions</gi></item>
<item><ref target="https://medieval.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/images/ms/cah/cah0142.gif">https://medieval.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/images/ms/cah/cah0142.gif</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1586">Domain of concept of cleanliness</ref>
<list>
<item>Skip for now ‚Äì followup meeting</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1621">Status of Schematron rules in TEI</ref>
<list>
<item>Where do we clarify or state what schematron implies conformance (Is it Ch. 23?) ‚Äì ask MH to clarify 23.4.3.1 Semantic Constraints</item>
<item>EB is for MH‚Äôs position 2: Why would Sch warnings pose a problem? We can simply state these don‚Äôt break conformance.</item>
<item>SB: We only have 9 Schematron rules that issue non-fatal warnings</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1626">r¬†</ref><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1626">equest: accept xmlns=‚Äùhttp://standoff.proposal‚Äù where appropriate</ref>
<list>
<item>Requesting more details from Piotr.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1636">add listBibl to model.profileDescPart</ref>
<list>
<item>EB: Note: This wouldn‚Äôt be parallel to use of listPerson, because it permitted in particDesc (not profileDesc). We‚Äôd need something analogous to particDesc to contain listBibl.</item>
<item>PS: I‚Äôm with Hugh(?) to say we‚Äôre postponing this for <gi>stdOff</gi> and in the meantime use <gi>sourceDesc</gi> rather than introducing further interim solutions</item>
<item>Ticket<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/374">¬†#374¬†</ref>needs to be implemented to deal with this problem‚Äìto implement <gi>linkedDataBlock</gi> (or <gi>linkDataBlock</gi>)</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
<p>===Group stopped here===</p>
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1645">Alter Guidelines re ‚Äúphrase-level‚Äù</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1655"><gi>seal</gi> element description should be expanded to other authentication mechanisms</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1663">Things we‚Äôd like to do in ODD which haven‚Äôt been implemented yet</ref>
<list>
<item>Don‚Äôt think there‚Äôs anything to do here, but maybe we should chat about it, and whether we need a ticket category for ‚Äú√ºber-tickets‚Äù</item>
<item>Maybe an ‚ÄòODD Development‚Äô category?</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1679">New attribute @towhom</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1702">model.entryPart.top for <gi>pc</gi> and <gi>lbl</gi></ref></item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>Group C: (RV, HC, MT)</head>
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1592">The namespace URI http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0 cannot be dereferenced</ref>
<list>
<item>Sadly blocked</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1624">the ‚ÄúspanTo-2‚Äù constraint in att.spanning</ref>
<list>
<item>Closed</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1630">examples and suggested values of unit= don‚Äôt match</ref>
<list>
<item>Agree with SB</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1640">description of classDecl needs revision, perhaps examples</ref>
<list>
<item>RV, MH, and SB to provide an example</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1650">model.physDescPart is declared in the wrong module</ref>
<list>
<item>Agree with James, he is so clever, so blocked</item>
<item>We need to agree on a deadline for the ontologies proposal, so we can a) prod for delivery of the report and/or b) unblock and implement dependencies if it won‚Äôt be delivered in a timely fashion.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1657">Guidelines Appendices should include a list of pending deprecations</ref>
<list>
<item>Mark green</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1667">Add listRef to model.ptrLike (and expand its description slightly)</ref>
<list>
<item>Mark green and go with SS‚Äôs 1st solution</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Content model of choice is too permissive¬†[Note: Just fixed this one, hope that is ok.]¬†[Note: No, we‚Äôre all really angry with you.]¬†[Note: more than ok, in fact]</item>
<item>Description of <gi>move</gi> is misleading¬†[Note: Done]
<list>
<item>Mark green and yes to (c)</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div>
<head>Nov. 18</head>
<div>
<head>Morning</head>
<div>
<head>Resume yesterday‚Äôs issues.</head>
<list>
<item>Finished yesterday‚Äôs tickets</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>@mode in ODD elementSpec</head>
<list>
<item>SB Suggests we have a dedicated teleconference to work out this issue.¬†ACTION ITEM: RV sets up phone call.</item>
<item>Looking at¬†<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/272">Stylesheets #272</ref></item>
<item>But this is not just a stylesheets issue</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>Backing up TEI repos</head>
<list>
<item>Just issues or repos?</item>
<item>Issues and Release artifacts (the binaries we upload) don‚Äôt persist if the repo is destroyed.</item>
<item>Distinction between preservation of history vs. disaster recovery</item>
<item>MH: A Jenkins job could backup the Issues once per day. RV: There‚Äôs an API for that. use curl. Keep today, yesterday, and 2 weeks ago. Try setting this up on each Jenkins server to run on different days.
ACTION ITEM: MH to set this up.¬†JC added script pointer on Slack
<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1714">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1714</ref></item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>Next release date and personnel</head>
<list>
<item>SB: refrigerate ~17‚Äì24 Jan, freeze ~25‚Äì31 Jan, release on Wed 31 Jan</item>
<item>MS release manager, HC release tech</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#13: Processing Model extensions /¬†<ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i3pbRKQMJN3A5ZmlFyncsu4nw08p5JaYi5vIZ3YEI70/edit?usp=sharing">behaviourSpec</ref></head>
<list>
<item><ref target="https://gitlab.exist-db.org/tei-publisher/tei-publisher-lib/issues/6">Meaningful interpretation for elementSpec/@mode (#6)</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://gitlab.exist-db.org/tei-publisher/tei-publisher-lib/issues/7">Allow external parameters to be defined globally (#7)</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://gitlab.exist-db.org/tei-publisher/tei-publisher-lib/issues/8">Pass general parameters to processed descendants (#8)</ref></item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#3: Roma report</head>
<p>RV runs through roadmap. Touches on areas where he needs help (OxGarage, design). Continue to organize regular meetings explaining what he‚Äôs been doing. Useful for RV to stay on track.</p>
<p><ref target="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zOhMRT6x74cl1fSHrwnKPsf8oPJiLEDieoONP_px89g/edit?usp=sharing">RomaJS report from the members meeting</ref></p>
</div>
<div>
<head>Telecon dates/times</head>
<list>
<item>Keep Council meetings on Thursdays at 09:00 Eastern US</item>
<item>SB will change Stylesheets meetings at some point to Tuesdays at 09:00 Eastern US</item>
</list>
</div>
<div>
<head>#11: oXygen Plugin (again)</head>
<list>
<item>MH: Needs to be updated to later version than 15</item>
<item>Names of ODD schema ‚Äì (for delivery on Exemplars page)
<list>
<item>Subset | Assistant | Assisted | TEI_Customisation_Assistant</item>
<item>Extension | Here-be-dragons | *unqualified* | tei_odds</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
<p>Amber tickets we didn‚Äôt cover:</p>
<list>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1586">Domain of concept of cleanliness</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1645">Alter Guidelines re ‚Äúphrase-level‚Äù</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1655"><gi>seal</gi> element description should be expanded to other authentication mechanisms</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1663">Things we‚Äôd like to do in ODD which haven‚Äôt been implemented yet</ref>
<list>
<item>Don‚Äôt think there‚Äôs anything to do here, but maybe we should chat about it, and whether we need a ticket category for ‚Äú√ºber-tickets‚Äù</item>
<item>Maybe an ‚ÄòODD Development‚Äô category?</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1679">New attribute @towhom</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1702">model.entryPart.top for <gi>pc</gi> and <gi>lbl</gi></ref></item>
</list>
<p><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+no%3Alabel">Unlabeled Issues</ref></p>
</div>
<div>
<head>Ticket and Pull Request Triage on TEI and Stylesheets Repos</head>
<div>
<table>

<row>
<cell><hi style="b">December</hi></cell>
<cell>JC</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><hi style="b">January</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="b">EM</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><hi style="b">February</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="b">SB</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><hi style="b">March</hi></cell>
<cell>RV</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><hi style="b">April</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="b">SS</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><hi style="b">May</hi></cell>
<cell>MS</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><hi style="b">June</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="b">HC</hi></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><hi style="b">July</hi></cell>
<cell><hi style="b">EB</hi></cell>
</row>

</table>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div>
<head>Afternoon</head>
<p>We‚Äôll have the room all day. Several of us will be departing in the afternoon, so general business should stop by 2‚Äì2:30, but those who are staying can keep working on tickets if they want.</p>
<div>
<head>#7: LingSig discussion</head>
<p>Ling Sig trying to bring linguists back into the TEI fold. Motivates the issues they are submitting. Have clone repo of their own and are sending pull requests to TEI</p>
<p>Examining #1670 ‚Äì very detailed.</p>
<p>General feeling in the room was that:</p>
<list>
<item>We very much like the addition of att.linguistic</item>
<item>Yes, put @lemma and @lemmaRef in it</item>
<item>We think @pos and @msd are fine</item>
<item>We think @join is fine but wonder if a different name could be used, or is that exactly what this is called in ISO 24611?</item>
<item>We think @reg would violate the principle of free range text in an attribute value, and see very little need for it, anyway.</item>
</list>
<p><hi style="b">NOTE:¬†</hi>We decided to use the combination of ‚ÄúGo‚Äù and ‚ÄúNeeds discussion‚Äù labels to indicate that the assignee is cleared to do more work on an issue, we expect it to move forward, but we expect more discussion before it is a ‚ÄúGo‚Äù to put into the¬†<hi style="i">Guidelines</hi>.</p>
<p>Ended ~16:37</p>
</div>
<div>
<head><hi style="b">Who is leaving when?</hi></head>
<p>HC has a 4:45pm flight</p>
<p>JC (Flight AC 8080), EM and EB have 8:40pm flight taxi at 6ish from Marriott</p>
<p>SB leaves Sun 11-19 10:00 (from harbor)</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
	</div>
	</div>
	</body></text></TEI>