<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0"  n="2018-02">
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title>
    <meeting n="2018-02" from="2018-02-24" to="2018-02-26">TEI Technical Council FTF meeting : Cologne
     <date>24–26 February 2018</date></meeting>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <distributor>TEI Website</distributor>
    <idno>TCM098</idno>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc>
    <p>Retagged from a Google Doc draft</p>
   </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
   <change when="2023-05-03">Archival header confected</change>
   <change>Extracted from Google Doc archive</change>
  </revisionDesc>
 </teiHeader>
 <text>
  <body>
   <p> TEI Technical Council<lb/>
    Spring F2F Agenda, 2018-02-24/26 10:00 (local)</p>
   <p> University of Cologne (Köln) 1658</p>
   <p>Sat 02-24 / Sun 02-25 <ref
    target="http://www.thomasinstitut.uni-koeln.de/kontaktlageplanundanreise0.html"> <hi
    rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Thomas-Institut</hi> </ref>, Universität zu Köln,
    Universitätsstraße 22</p>
   <p>Mon 02-26 <ref target="http://dhd2018.uni-koeln.de/lageplan/"> <hi
    rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Neues Seminargebäude, Room S23</hi> </ref>, Universität zu Köln,
    Universitätsstraße</p>
   <p>Present:</p>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
    <item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EB)</item>
    <item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
    <item>James Cummings (JC)</item>
    <item>Elli Mylonas (EM)</item>
    <item>Martina Scholger (MS) (Chair)</item>
    <item>Peter Stadler (PS)</item>
    <item>Sarah Stanley (SS)</item>
    <item>Magdalena Turska (MT)</item>
    <item>Raffaele Viglianti (RV)</item>
   </list>
   <p>Remote: </p>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item>Alejandro Bia (AB) (via Google Hangouts)</item>
   </list>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item> <list type="unordered">
     <item/>
     </list> </item>
   </list><div>
   <head>Saturday Morning (10:30–13:30): </head>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item>Release report (HC &amp; MS)<list type="unordered">
     <item>Problems with permissions on website.</item>
     <item>New CMS?</item>
     <item>Council needs to have access to update our minutes (and other parts that need to be
      changed during releases)—we need this now. MS will push for completion on new website platform
      (preview at <ref target="http://www-dev.tei-c.org/"/>).</item>
     <item> <hi rend="bold">Action on MS</hi> to address the Board — due 2018-03-10.</item>
     <item>Release documentation has been updated for clarity.</item>
     <item>Slack worked well.</item>
     <item>oXygen plugin release has problems. HC has patched?</item>
     <item>More frequent releases (JC) if we have something new. But in that case, could do the
      Guidelines, not Stylesheets because oXygen plugin likely has to be remade each time for
      Stylesheets.</item>
     </list> </item>
    <item>Rub-a-dub report<list type="unordered">
     <item>SB: No progress since phone teleconference</item>
     </list> </item>
    <item>Ticket assignment report<list type="unordered">
     <item>SB: We should be putting ticket assignment information in a logical place + some
      mechanism for reminding people.</item>
     </list> </item>
   </list>
   <table rend="frame" xml:id="Table1">
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">December 2017</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="color(#38761d)bold"> JC</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">January 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">EM</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">February 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">SB</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">March 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="color(#ff00ff)bold">RV</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">April 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">SS</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">May 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="color(#9900ff)bold">MS</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">June 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">HC</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">July 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">EB</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">August 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">JC</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">September 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">EM</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">October 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">MT</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">November 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">SS</hi> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">December 2018</hi> </cell>
     <cell> <hi rend="bold">AB</hi> </cell>
    </row>
   </table>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item>Periodicals SIG<list type="unordered">
     <item>Abstract:<list type="unordered">
      <item>Publications with any kind of regular publication cycle, from several times a day to
       cycles of several years, arguably form the majority of (printed) texts nowadays. They span
       from newspapers via almanacs to comics and many others.</item>
      <item>While these different types all have their own needs, their periodicity means that there
       are special questions to keep in mind when systematically encoding them.</item>
      <item>The SIG Periodicals and Newspapers will focus on aspects that are common to all these
       kinds of periodicals:<list type="unordered">
       <item>How to encode this periodicity with its aspects in a concise and machine readable
        way;</item>
       <item>How to deal with parts of periodicals that have their own periodicity (e.g. weekly,
        monthly etc. additions); AB: I see it more as a matter of date-stamping than
        periodicity.</item>
       <item>How to deal with texts continued over several issues of a periodical;</item>
       <item>How to encode the title of e.g. a newspaper (which usually do not cover an entire
        page).<list type="unordered">
        <item>Additionally, the SIG will focus on methods and workflows for preparing full texts of
         periodicals by means of OCR and related technologies.</item>
        </list> </item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>MS responds to SIG in the affirmative, and suggests including some of the points above
       in order to make the SIG more attractive to a broader audience.</item>
      <item>Suggestions from Council to include in SIG description: questions re encoding of
       advertising, page layouts, and negative space. </item>
      <item>SS to send notes to MS with suggestions for expansion (based on <ref
       target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i0ow7-rfjg2OLwuyzXlk-u7P0nWLN5MP9VWUed1EqIg/edit?usp=sharing"
       > <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Victoria meeting</hi> </ref>).</item>
      <item>MS ask Luis Meneses for Wiki and mail address. </item>
      </list> </item>
     </list> </item>
   </list>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item> <list type="unordered">
     <item>Fall F2F in Tokyo <list type="unordered">
      <item>Conference is 09-09 – 09-13: <ref target="https://tei2018.dhii.asia/"/> <hi
       rend="color(#1155cc)underline">.</hi> </item>
      <item>MT wants to have workshops, and for Council meeting not to coincide with
       workshops.</item>
      <item>Ask local organizers if before or after is better.</item>
      <item>Our meeting cannot overlap with Board meeting (as both HC &amp; MS attend Board).</item>
      <item>TEI2018 Program committee volunteers: RV, PS, MT, SS, AB, EB.</item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>Set up a shared calendar, shared Google Docs, minutes<list type="unordered">
      <item> <hi rend="bold">Action on HC</hi> to set up calendar using TEIConstorium at gmail.com
       account by 2018-03-10.</item>
      <item/>
      </list> </item>
     <item>Open TEI Council meeting <list type="unordered">
      <item>2018-02-26, 10:00–12:00, 7 guests</item>
      <item>Introduce GitHub, issues, and the work of the Technical Council.</item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>TEI offices history <list type="unordered">
      <item>History of demographics of TEI contributors, MT asks the treasurer (HC) for help
       gathering the relevant data.</item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>TEI Web Services and Infrastructure<list type="unordered">
      <item>Jenkins generally<list type="unordered">
       <item>Continuous integration—which services are problematic?</item>
       <item>PS: Releases help to demonstrate all the intersecting pieces. Need PHP instance, etc. </item>
       <item>A single global infrastructure would help in a Docker image—to be run at Paderborn,
        Oxford, etc. All the requirements in place in Docker.</item>
       <item>Currently we’re creating Jenkins artifacts, but not the entire web service. Ideally, we
        are publishing Docker images (from Dockerhub). tei-c.org should eventually point to one
        machine.</item>
       <item>Entire TEI website, or just the Guidelines and Tools?</item>
       <item>We need better documentation of the various pieces (including eXist integration). </item>
       <item>RV: Maybe we can exclude the Roma part, because Roma JS is coming—just to make this
        easier. Instead of trying to figure out dependencies of old Roma.</item>
       <item>MT: maybe a sub-group should make a Martina Scholger2019-07-09T21:19:06<note>what is
        TR?</note>TR of all this—architecture diagram. <ref
        target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1743"/> <list type="unordered">
        <item>sub-group PS, HC, MT, JC.</item>
        <item>reviewers: EB, SB, Martin Holmes, others? </item>
        </list> </item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>Jenkins on Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center (PSC)—Jenkins report (EB): needs to use
       singularity wrapper. Issues with supercomputing nodes communicating with the outside
       world—need documentation on this (PS working on it.) </item>
      <item>PS: How to boost efficiency in the Jenkins build process? We should be refactoring the
       build process and implementing parallelization.</item>
      <item>Travis CI—HC’s understanding is that our build process is too expensive for it to run,
       so perhaps we should set up a lightweight test suite—but can set up for any GitHub site. </item>
      <item>Docker Images</item>
      <item>Fragility of having single individuals supporting this (will they continue after they
       leave Council); need cloud hosted solutions not reliance on Paderborn, UVic, etc. (Oxford is
       a case we should learn from.)<list type="unordered">
       <item>HC: We can only rely on individuals. But perhaps PS’s work will make things easier to
        transfer. EM and EB: Documentation will help! SB: Should we be hiring someone to do this? MT
        (and others): We need a clear vision of how everything works. PS: OS interdependencies need
        to be documented. </item>
       <item>JC: “Meta-fragility” Someone needs to understand Docker (or Singularity). HC: Again,
        this is the point of the documentation. JC agrees and encourages the documentation to be
        explicit and not focussed just on a particular solution. </item>
       <item>MT: People can run tests on their own machines.</item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>Website—as connected to services </item>
      <item>OxGarage! Much of our stuff relies on OxGarage behind the scenes but we don’t really
       support it well.<list type="unordered">
       <item>Validation problems: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/oxgarage/issues/18"> <hi
        rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Issue created to address it</hi> </ref> </item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>Roma</item>
      <item>Debian Packages: SB loves them. PS: This is one of the services we provide. We need a
       Docker image for this to be run universally. JC: A release would involve updating these
       Docker images.<list type="unordered">
       <item>The signature (including passphrase) will have to be passed into the Docker image
        somehow.</item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>Github</item>
      <item/>
      <item>eXist-db that Roma and OxGarage relies on?</item>
      <item>Jenkins build consolidation: SB reporting from Martin Holmes: <list type="unordered">
       <item>Documentation build (builds the TEI Guidelines in English first).</item>
       <item>Build epubs/PDF.</item>
       <item>Then build in the 9 other languages.</item>
       <item>HC: Where in the build flow is it most efficient to parallelize these tests? Some tests
        depend on output of previous tests—some linearity is necessary. Need to study the whole
        process to see where it can branch. Test in Japanese instead of English, maybe?</item>
       <item>Martin’s proposal: Combine the three jobs: TEIP5-test, with TEIP5-Documentation, and
        TEIP5. They’re currently chained in order—he says we make them one job on one of the
        servers, then test it for speed against 3-job version. He thinks this will save disk space
        re Jenkins processes. These are all changes to the Jenkins processes.</item>
       <item>Discussion: This makes sense because it knocks out a lot of repetition. A successful
        build should run a lot faster.</item>
       <item>Question for Martin Holmes: Yes—we think this is a good idea, and Martin should do the
        comparison on the same machine. Refactoring the build process needs to be studied as well.
       </item>
       </list> </item>
      </list> </item>
     </list> </item>
   </list>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item> <list type="unordered">
     <item>Tickets</item>
     </list> </item>
    <item>Saturday Afternoon (15:15 - )<list type="unordered">
     <item>Former Council chair Hugh Cayless receives a thank you present from the other Council
      members for his service.</item>
     <item>Tickets</item>
     </list> </item>
    <item> <ref
     target="https://www.lieferando.de/pinocchio-2?utm_campaign=foodorder&amp;utm_medium=organic&amp;utm_source=google"
     /> </item>
   </list></div><div>
   <head>Sunday Morning</head>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item> <list type="unordered">
     <item>RomaJS<list type="unordered">
      <item>Quick report</item>
      <item>A couple of UI questions to the group</item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>StandOff proposal: <ref target="https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec"/> <list
      type="unordered">
      <item>Here’s a handy HTML preview from GitHub: <ref
       target="http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec/blob/AnnArbor/Scenarios/StandOffScenarios.html"
       /> </item>
      <item>Example of old standoff proposal: <ref
       target="https://github.com/laurentromary/stdfSpec/blob/AnnArbor/Samples/NERD-Example-draft.xml"
       /> </item>
      <item>We’re not agreeing on the uses of <gi>teiHeader</gi> and macro structure. We do agree
       that standoff section, listAnnotations and individual annotation levels require their
       specific metadata but not necessarily as <gi>teiHeader</gi>. MT would like to see some
       examples of metadata that makes sense for standoff and is concerned that allowing
       fully-fledged <gi>teiHeader</gi> may result in very weird constructs.</item>
      <item>Consensus on needing to study up on open annotation to apply to multiple cases—broader
       applicability than we’re seeing in the proposal. Need to make sure we’re correctly
       implementing Open Annotation model.</item>
      <item>Action items: <list type="unordered">
       <item>MT will prepare a short presentation on Web Annotation <ref
        target="https://www.w3.org/TR/annotation-model/"/> and also results of it’s integration
        attempts with TEI from the earlyPrint project.</item>
       <item>Identify general domains for standoff use as well as more detailed use case scenarios
        for standoff<list type="unordered">
        <item>Different perspectives on the same material (e.g. linguistic, textual variants,
         transcriptional features, commentary, translations... e.g. Digital Mishnah project <ref
         target="http://www.digitalmishnah.org"/> <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline">.</hi> </item>
        <item>Crowdsourced corrections and annotations for large scale corpora e..g Shakespeare His
         Contemporaries aka earlyPrint <ref
         target="http://shakespearehiscontemporaries.northwestern.edu/shc/home.html"/> <hi
         rend="color(#1155cc)underline">.</hi> </item>
        <item>As solution for overlapping hierarchies problem / separation for different encoding
         layers (e.g. to separate very verbose linguistic encoding.</item>
        </list> </item>
       </list> </item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>oXygen plug-in <list type="unordered">
      <item>Nneeds a patch since oXygen release 19—required for Stylesheets releases.</item>
      <item>Trying to figure out why this is on the agenda. There was a problem that HC fixed. It
       still doesn’t contain SB’s TEI customization. PS points out that it needs (non-free) an older
       Oxygen jar in order to compile—because the API changed, won’t build with newer versions of
       Oxygen and why it’s not included in the standard Jenkin’s build.</item>
      <item>PS will look at why paths in Stylesheets aren’t working in Oxygen when they are working
       in OxGarage. Stylesheets group can look at it.</item>
      <item> <hi rend="bold">Action:</hi> HC/SB/MH will look at moving to new oXygen jar and report
       at next teleconference.</item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>SB &amp; EM attribute class triage report <ref
      target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/386"> <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline">386:
      free-standing attributes -&gt; class</hi> </ref> and <ref
      target="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1k6rB7SSvWlZQKtOFDUJhpNVUDcNM8xETlWWiH3JAYZw/edit?usp=sharing"
      > <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Duplatts spreadsheet</hi> </ref> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">.</hi> </item>
     </list> </item>
   </list>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item>Sunday Afternoon:<list type="unordered">
     <item>Susanne Haaf will be arriving at ~15:00 to join us as “invited expert”, so we should
      reserve this time for the <ref
      target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3ASIG%3ALingSIG"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">LingSG tickets</hi> </ref> <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline"
      >.</hi> Susanne could not make it in the end so we will use this time for tickets.</item>
     <item>Blue sky thinking of TEI future?<list type="unordered">
      <item>PS and HC want to rebuild the class system. In a new system, classes would have proper
       inheritance. <list type="unordered">
       <item>Why did we declare class membership instead of using inheritance?</item>
       <item>Semantic classes—we might have lots of classes with only one member.</item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>Revamp the declaration system<list type="unordered">
       <item>What would <gi>choice</gi> look like if it weren't drawing on the model from P4?</item>
       <item>Rebuild <gi>msDesc</gi> from <gi>objectDesc</gi>.</item>
       <item>Embed structured <gi>msDesc</gi> elsewhere than <gi>teiHeader</gi>, in prose, say in
        frontmatter.</item>
       </list> </item>
      <item><gi>msDesc</gi> and Dictionaries—aren’t well integrated with the rest of the TEI. Why do
       we recommend doing things one way in Dictionaries that we could do elsewise elsewhere? </item>
      <item>Establishing conventions for common patterns: (how do we point, etc.) to try to reduce
       different ways of doing the same things.</item>
      <item>Reducing the excessive proliferation of choices for the encoder. E.g. all author
       elements must contain either <gi>persName</gi> or <gi>orgName</gi>, but must contain one of
       these. JC: This would break hundreds of thousands of documents.</item>
      <item>Flexibility may be worth preserving, however!</item>
      <item>P6: Requirements for moving to new P# version, e.g. P6, is described in the Birnbaum
       Doctrine: <lb/>
       “Council may break backward compatibility in a more substantial and comprehensive way (as
       happened with the transition from P4 to P5) with the transition to a new major TEI proposal
       version (e.g., P6 version 1.0.0, but not P5 99.99.0). Such transitions should only happen in
       response to the emergence of new technologies (e.g., the transition from SGML to XML) or the
       development of a new architecture that conveys substantial benefit (e.g., the development of
       the new class system). Historically, new major versions have emerged approximately every five
       years, but with P5 a new system of rolling major/minor versions has been adopted.” <ref
       target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Working/tcw09.xml"/> </item>
      <item>Should the Guidelines have more words? </item>
      <item>More pictures? Diagrams, to show complex concepts.</item>
      <item>JC: Examples that are in their own ecosystem: see the wider context. Examples in the
       Guidelines point into whole files.</item>
      <item>Integration with standards like IIIF; LOD; Awareness of hybrid contexts (text +
       images).</item>
      <item>Make TEI be more database-friendly, and avoid redundancy, make compiled manifest
       versions of documents with everything necessary to understand it.</item>
      <item>Registry of APIs and code-sharing.</item>
      <item>AB: Get rid of overcomplexity, i.e. unnecessary complexity (referring both to the markup
       scheme and to the ecosystem of tools and services), e.g. too many different ways to do the
       same, different elements with similar semantics belonging to different tagsets.
       Overcomplexity makes processing and maintenance more difficult/costly. The TEI cannot be
       simple but can be simpler. </item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>Tickets</item>
     </list> </item>
    <item>Standoff-Proposal: <list type="unordered">
     <item>MT: Laurent’s proposal has too many different ways of encoding web annotation
      relationships, and some of it doesn’t seem consistent with the actual web annotation model. </item>
     <item>We should draft specific requirements, as in we want a way to address an arbitrary block
      of text, etc.</item>
     <item>Annotation body and annotation target need to be discreet elements, clearly mappable to
      the web annotation model.</item>
     <item>RV: Do we need to replicate RDF / IIIF/ Open annotation structures in TEI? Or can we just
      map to them? </item>
     <item>SB: But maybe what we have in TEI should be expressible in this structure.</item>
     <item>RV: And linguists might want more structure. But so much work has to be done to implement
      this as TEI. </item>
     <item>PS: We could point out what we don’t like in Laurent’s proposal: We want a container for
      annotation markup. A place to put personography kinds of things, with joins and linkGrps. Can
      Laurent’s proposal accommodate these things?</item>
     <item>SB: How about <tag>note target="annotTarget" resp="whoCreated"</tag>annotation
      body<tag>/note</tag> </item>
     <item><gi>linkedDataBlock</gi></item>
     <item>SB and RV: We need to rewrite this a better way. Fork the repo and rewrite it instead of
      just pushing back against it. </item>
     <item>We don’t like the structure, and a different way to write the annotations. </item>
     <item> <hi rend="bold">Action on: MT, HC, and SB</hi> will work on this: study the proposal
      closely, work on a counterproposal, have a phone call, and then respond to Laurent with a
      phone call.</item>
     </list> </item>
   </list></div><div>
   <head>Monday Morning (10:00–12:00)</head>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item> Seminargebäude—the little building behind the big one across the street from us now.<list
     type="unordered">
     <item>Open meeting for “Meet the Technical Council”</item>
     <item>Participants:<list type="unordered">
      <item>Andreas Galffy</item>
      <item>Sree Ganesh Thotempudi</item>
      <item>Redmer Kronemeijer</item>
      <item>Gerrit Brüning</item>
      <item>Michael Dahnke</item>
      <item>Susanne Haaf</item>
      <item>Peter Dängeli</item>
      <item>Thomas Kollatz</item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>Possible issues to discuss: <list type="unordered">
      <item> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1687"> <hi
       rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1687</hi> </ref> </item>
      <item> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1679#issuecomment-363432650"> <hi
       rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1679</hi> </ref> </item>
      <item> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1632"> <hi
       rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1632</hi> </ref> </item>
      <item> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1427"> <hi
       rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1427</hi> </ref> </item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>Discussion with community: <list type="unordered">
      <item>Andreas Kuczera: graph model of TEI (graph SIG).</item>
      <item>Tiziana Mancinelli: Making a task force to address accessibility issues for TEI digital
       projects. </item>
      </list> </item>
     </list> </item>
    <item>Monday Afternoon:<list type="unordered">
     <item>Ticket review. Pull requests should be reviewed regularly. </item>
     <item>Summary of upcoming conference calls:<list type="unordered">
      <item>LingSig (Action on PS)</item>
      <item>Measurements proposal (Action on EM)</item>
      </list> </item>
     <item>Council commends MS on an awesome Job for her first F2F as Council Chair :-)</item>
     </list> </item>
   </list>
   <p>------------------------------------</p>
   <p>Status Needs Discussion:</p>
   <p>Groups (Saturday)</p>
   <p>Group A: RV, PS, HC </p>
   <p>Group B: JC, SB, SS, MS</p>
   <p>Group C: EB, MT, EM, AB</p>
   <p>Groups (Sunday)</p>
   <p>Group A: SS, EB, PS</p>
   <p>Group B: RV, JC, SB</p>
   <p>Group C: HC, MS, EM, AB</p>
   <p>Group D: MT (Standoff)</p>
   <p>Group A discussed getting the OxGarage validation service working with RomaJS. Upon
    investigation, OxGarage only supports three obsolete, hard-coded schemas (two are DTDs!). We
    gathered some requirements for HC to go and implement a new validation service that more-or-less
    completely replaces the current one. The current supported validations would be removed. </p>
   <p>Requirements:</p>
   <list type="unordered">
    <item>For validator, read (by default) http://www.tei-c.org/release/xml/tei/custom/schema/ and
     list available schemas.</item>
    <item>Input customization name and POSTed file to be validated. No uploading schema
     files.</item>
    <item>Schematron validation<list type="unordered">
     <item>question whether do Relax NG / XSD validation with Schematron in a single pass or
      separately.</item>
     </list> </item>
    <item>Roma needs fragment validation.</item>
   </list>
   <p>RomaJS could be bundled as a frontend for OxGarage in the OxGarage Docker distribution.</p>
   <p>HC will also look at rate-limiting for OxGarage, since apparently it is abused for batch
    conversion. </p>
   <table rend="frame" xml:id="Table2">
    <row>
     <cell>Group</cell>
     <cell>No.</cell>
     <cell>Description</cell>
     <cell>Suggestion</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>A</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1737"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1737</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1737"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Deprecate macroSpec/@type</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>YES!</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>B</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1735"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1735</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1735"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">occurences of <gi>content</gi></hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Subgroup recommends adopting the constraints (likely as Schematron)</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1728"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1728</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1728"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Why no note in witness?</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>
      <p>Status Go.</p>
      <p>Subgroup wants to add model.notelike to the content model of witness. On ticket: “sounds as
      if adding <gi>note</gi> inside <gi>witness</gi> is not a problem. But the question is where,
      does it go? macro.limitedContent contains <gi>desc</gi>, <gi>fDescr</gi>, <gi>figDesc</gi>,
      <gi>fsDescr</gi>, <gi>meeting</gi>, <gi>rendition</gi>, <gi>tagUsage</gi>, <gi>witness</gi>—so
      adding there would add it to all these other elements where it may not make sense.</p>
      <p>Another suggestion is adding model.noteLike to the content of <gi>witness</gi> because it
      affects the fewest other elements. Discussion: No, we shouldn’t use noteLike because it would
      permit <gi>witDetail</gi> which shouldn’t go in <gi>witness</gi>. So solution is add
      <gi>note</gi> as an element to the content model of <gi>witness</gi>.</p> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>A</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1727"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1727</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1727"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">teidata.points could be more tightly constrained</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>
      <p>No. Subgroup think this is probably overkill. Encoders should have options like including
      white spaces after commas, etc. Is it possible to have a combined datatype, btw?</p> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>B</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1726"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1726</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1726"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Feature request related to fsdDecl</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Syd suggests we have PS check with Lou Burnard about ISO.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1720"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1720</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1720"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Improve description of att.lexicographic</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>
      <p>F2F subgroup suggests a rephrase, thus:</p>
      <p>att.lexicographic “provides a set of attributes used for specifying standard values [AND
      OTHER PURPOSES], and is common to all elements in the dictionary module as well as elsewhere”.
      Discussion: no—really these attributes are for dictionaries. That may change with <ref
      target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1707">#1707</ref>.</p> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>B</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1715"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1715</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1715"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Clarify description of att.combinable's "mode"</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>F2F subgroup suggests moving away from using processing-focused language in the
      descriptions (and towards language that describes the effects). We suggest utilizing language
      like “is part of,” instead of “is added to”. Subgroup thinks notes/remarks look good.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1713"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1713</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1713"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Add @ident to <gi>remarks</gi> and <gi>exemplum</gi></hi>
      </ref> </cell>
     <cell>
      <p>We think this has to do with ODD modes of add, replace, change, and we want some
      clarification on the usage of the desired attribute, and what’s wrong when processing the
      modes with remarks and exemplum. In Issue <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/272"
      > <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline">272</hi> </ref>, it looks like the problem is that we’re
      suppressing the output of remarks and exemplum when mode="change". @ident seems to be
      problematic because it’s meant to be a unique identifier. Perhaps we need @type or something
      like it—something categorical?</p>
      <p>Discussion: Ticket is Go for SS to implement @mode and @ident, as it is done on
      <gi>valItem</gi>.</p> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>B</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1710"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1710</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1710"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Review placement of classes, macros, and datatypes in
      modules</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Definitely needs more work. At least a subgroup of two or three people to work out all
      the movements.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1707"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1707</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1707"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">How to encode measurement</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Subgroup recommends a small working group (with a Council member on it) to move this
      along.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>B</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1703"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1703</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1703"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">adding (not replacing) ODD examples</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Council agrees exemplums should be members of att.identified.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1698"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1698</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1698"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">The namespace could be mentioned more prominently in the
      guidelines</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Subgroup recommends Ch. 1 for introduction to namespaces and ref 23.4.4 and reference it
      in Ch. 22 and 23. 23.4.4 describes use of TEI namespace—maybe not as prominently as the ticket
      requests. Ch. 1 could introduce the TEI namespace, and link to Ch. 23.4.4. could indicate all
      relevant namespaces in 23, but make appendix as for elements, attributes. </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>B</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1697"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1697</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1697"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">mode="clone" on *Spec</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>
      <p>Excellent! Subgroup comment: <ref
      target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1697#issuecomment-368319805"/> </p>
      <p>RV: mode="clone" only permitted on elements in att.identified. Greenlighted to work in
      feature branch. Needs a Stylesheets ticket. And RV requests it to be implemented by June so
      Roma JS can pick it up. But the other option is that RomaJS does not deal with it in first
      release. That seems better.</p> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>A Meet the Council Session</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1687"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1687</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>add @register to <gi>layout</gi></cell>
     <cell>
      <p>Needs comment from Council.</p> <list type="unordered">
      <item>Subgroup has reviewed this...</item>
      </list> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1686"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1686</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1686"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">the `<gi>affiliation</gi>` element appears somewhat abused;
      `<gi>bio</gi>` would be better</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>This ticket refers to abuses of the use of <gi>affiliation</gi> for contents which are
      not actually affiliation stuff. Suggests using <gi>bio</gi> for wide biographical data. Then
      discussion becomes a snowball of suggestions: <gi>bio</gi>, <gi>shortBio</gi>,
      <gi>biogNote</gi>, <tag>note type="bio"</tag>, etc., and a list of possible contained
      elements.<list type="unordered">
      <item><gi>placeName</gi> already added to <gi>affiliation</gi> <ref
       target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1686"> <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline"
       >#1692</hi> </ref> </item>
      <item>Answer this ticket saying in contexts like jTEI, use <tag>note type=”bio”</tag></item>
      <item>Biography in personography is a new and bigger issue. If current elements are not enough
       they can open a new ticket.</item>
      </list> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>B Meet the Council session</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1679"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1679</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1679"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">New attribute @towhom</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>
      <p>This ticket is go (from Open Council meeting). From the ticket:</p>
      <p>New suggested subclass includes: <gi>kinesic</gi>, <gi>move</gi>, <gi>pause</gi>,
      <gi>q</gi>, <gi>said</gi>, <gi>sp</gi>, <gi>spGrp</gi>, <gi>stage</gi>, <gi>u</gi>,
      <gi>vocal</gi>, <gi>writing</gi></p>
      <p>This would exclude <gi>annotationBlock</gi>, <gi>change</gi>, <gi>incident</gi>,
      <gi>setting</gi>, <gi>shift</gi>. We can call it att.directed.</p> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>A</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1663"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1663</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1663"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Things we'd like to do in ODD which haven't been implemented
      yet</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Nnothing to do?</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>B</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1658"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1658</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1658"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline"><gi>q</gi> should be allowed in <gi>span</gi></hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Subgroup thinks the choice is use <gi>mentioned</gi> or <gi>soCalled</gi> or we add
      <gi>q</gi> to the content model of <gi>span</gi>. We don’t want to add the whole qLike
      class.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1655"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1655</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1655"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline"><gi>seal</gi> element description should be expanded to other
      authentication mechanisms</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Subgroup thinks James should do the proposed rewording. If Georg Vogeler wants to propose
      an authentication section — he should submit a proposal. </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>A</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1650"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1650</hi> </ref> <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline"> </hi> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1650"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">model.physDescPart is declared in the wrong module</hi> </ref>
      <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline"> </hi> </cell>
     <cell>We recommend green-lighting this one.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1641"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1641</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1641"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Change structure of supportDesc</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Subgroup thinks the way to do this is with <gi>msPart</gi> or <gi>msFrag</gi>; we suggest
      to close the ticket and reopen it when Torsten Schaßan is coming up with a good and convincing
      example. </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>A</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1640"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1640</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1640"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">description of classDecl needs revision, perhaps examples</hi>
      </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Go! Patch in those examples, please.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C Meet the Council Session</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1632"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1632</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1632"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">egXML needs a way to highlight renditional aspects in the
      example</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>This should not be discussed on Monday. We’ll sacrifice one of our other tickets instead.
      JC should remove the commented out prose completely. Rest of ticket about @rend in
      <gi>egXML</gi> should be revisited if someone wants it. JC: I do want it! (for encoding
      existing egXMLs). And it would potentially be very useful for the Guidelines. How should one
      highlight just the closing tag of a single element in an <gi>egXML</gi>? Or one element, or
      the ‘changed’ element between two examples, etc. </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>B</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1621"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1621</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1621"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Status of Schematron rules in TEI</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>EB will make a proposal outside of the dev branch.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1617"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1617</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1617"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">dealing with multiple publication places</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>JC is right. Wait for Laurent or others to comment before closing.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>A</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1607"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1607</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1607"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">xsl:* (or other non-sch:*) not allowed within
      constraintSpec</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>How far did <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/1742"/> go to resolve the issue
      of processing XSL within Schematron and SQF in ODDs? Looks like this changed the @scheme from
      isoschematron to schematron....(anything more?) Council resolves to test a simple change (as
      now indicated on ticket).</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1596"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1596</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1596"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Pure-ODD content model elements appear to be strictly weaker
      than regular languages -- intended?</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Complete test suite for <gi>empty</gi> in stylesheets also, deprecate
      <gi>content</gi>.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>A</cell>
     <cell>1586</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1586"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Domain of concept of cleanliness</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Has anyone scheduled that follow-up meeting with Michael Sperberg-McQueen and Lou
      Burnard? </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
     <cell/>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>C</cell>
     <cell>1453</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1453"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">`<gi>path</gi>` should exist alongside `<gi>zone</gi>` for
      non-closed areas in facsimile</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Tell MH to go ahead.</cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>A</cell>
     <cell>1431</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1431"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">clarify how to encode short-form citations</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>
      <p>Where are the examples called for in the ticket? Really, what we need now are examples.</p>
      <p>Google Doc with a collection of examples for this ticket = Discussion from teleconference
      (<ref
      target="https://tei-c.org/activities/council/meetings/teleconference-2017-03-30-1300-utc/">
      <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline">March 2017</hi> </ref>).</p> </cell>
    </row>
    <row>
     <cell>Discuss with Gerrit Brüning</cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1427"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">1427</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1427"> <hi
      rend="color(#1155cc)underline">Restructure chapter 11</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell>Discuss with Gerrit Brüning?</cell>
    </row>
   
    <row>
     <cell/>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/1665"> <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline"
      >1665</hi> </ref> </cell>
     <cell> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/1665"> <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline"
      >att.referring for <gi>span</gi></hi> </ref> <hi rend="color(#1155cc)underline"> </hi> </cell>
     <cell>Pull request (for Ling Sig, so postponing until upcoming conference call).</cell>
    </row>
   </table></div>
  </body>
 </text>
</TEI>
