<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2020-12"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2020-12" when="2020-12-08">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>8 December 2020</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM134</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-30927</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div><p><hi style="strong">Meeting times: </hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>6:00–7:30 PST, EST 09:00–10:30, GMT 14:00–15:30, CET 15:00–16:30</item>
<item>Started:    14:06Z    Ended:    15:28Z</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Helena Bermúdez Sabel (HB joined @ ~15:10Z)</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EB)</item>
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>Jessica H. Lu (JL)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
<item>Peter Stadler (PS)</item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV)</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Apologies/Not Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Nicholas Cole</item>
<item>Vanessa Bigot Juloux</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska</item>
<item>Meaghan Brown</item>
</list><p> </p><div type="h2"><head>Welcome and goodbye</head></div><div type="h2"><head>Organisation of meetings</head><list style="ul">
<item>General discussion on organization of Council meetings and Stylesheet meetings
<list style="ul">
<item>SB proposes to change the Stylesheets meeting to a “tactical technical work meeting” about working on tickets generally (including, but not limited to, Stylesheets).</item>
<item>Council raises the following concerns:
<list style="ul">
<item>Maybe we should still focus on Stylesheets?</item>
<item>“Work shadowing” is helpful for new/less emacs-experienced Council members.</item>
<item>Not all Councilmembers like to work on/talk through tickets in a group; some prefer to work on tickets individually as it suits their own schedules and other commitments.</item>
<item>Any chance to the existing format of Stylesheets meetings should aim to help with less face-to-face work together, e.g. provide forum to resolve “needs discussion” matters so that individual Councilmembers can work on tickets more efficiently</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>General agreement to defer further discussion and any changes until after our upcoming “short VF2F” in ~early February.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Meeting times for 2021
<list style="ul">
<item>Due to locations of incoming and continuing Councilmembers, we know the time is going to have to be early morning PST, late afternoon for Europeans</item>
<item>MS requests that we share our availability (by days, unless something particular)</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="b">Action on Everyone</hi> to complete Doodle for short virtual F2F meeting in January/February</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Next release</head><list style="ul">
<item>Refridge: Fri 2021-02-12</item>
<item>Freeze: Fri 2021-02-19</item>
<item>Release: Thu 2021-02-25</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Council chair elections</head><list style="ul">
<item>MS re-elected (6 yes, 1 abstention out of 7 eligible voters)</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Copious examples</head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1933">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1933</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://bauman.zapto.org/~syd/temp/4TEICouncil/html_GLs_all_eg_en/">https://bauman.zapto.org/~syd/temp/4TEICouncil/html_GLs_all_eg_en/</ref>
<list style="ul">
<item>EB: <gi>bibl</gi> examples are far more diverse; <gi>byline</gi> improved; <gi>gap</gi> Asian examples, but duplicate examples (fr and en) — (MS: same for <gi>abbr</gi>); <gi>ab</gi> only one example.</item>
<item>Recommendation: use <gi>exemplum</gi> itself as the grouping mechanism for a set of <gi>egXML</gi>s (or <gi>eg</gi>s) and <gi>p</gi>s that exemplify the exact same thing.</item>
<item>Another recommendation: rely on front-end (i.e. browser) user interaction to make heuristic decisions as to which should be displayed.</item>
<item>We need 3 new issues: <hi style="b">Action on EB</hi>
<list style="ul">
<item>TEI repo: change the content model of exemplum <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2072">#2072</ref></item>
<item>TEI repo: group examples <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2073">#2073</ref></item>
<item>Stylesheets repo: do something semi-intelligent with grouped examples in an <gi>exemplum</gi> <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/480">#480</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Open tickets for issues that we encounter when reviewing examples (see email from Martin to the <ref target="https://lists.tei-c.org/pipermail/tei-council/2020-November/026587.html">Council list</ref>).</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>TEI “Vanilla” — Potential Next Steps</head><list style="ul">
<item>Notes from the VF2F meeting in October
<list style="ul">
<item>SB: Change the name because it has alternative meanings in our community (to mean “unmodified”)</item>
<item>TEI Council should review the current introductory material and try to curate and filter some of the older material to ensure that it is relevant to current Guidelines.</item>
<item>Encourage creation of ‘Road Not Taken’ examples? Explanations of decisions and alternates not chosen.</item>
<item>Can we encourage some material to be written on presenting TEI documents (as a technical matter).</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>MT: meeting summary <ref target="https://e-editiones.org/tei-vanilla-meeting-summary/">https://e-editiones.org/tei-vanilla-meeting-summary/</ref></item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Proposal on CMC</head><list style="ul">
<item>CMC group met Fri 04 Dec, and plans to continue on Fri 11 Dec</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Some of Peter’s issues</head><list style="ul">
<item>Can we mark these green?
<list style="ul">
<item>Remove directory “genetic”: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2043">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2043</ref>
<list style="ul">
<item>SB: <hi style="b">yes</hi></item>
<item>MS: green</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>teiCorpus: make guidelines and data model consistent: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1823">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1823</ref> – do you agree with my latest comment: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1823#issuecomment-667130393">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1823#issuecomment-667130393</ref> ?
<list style="ul">
<item>SB: not read it, yet; will try to reply by tomorrow</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Notification on pull requests</head><p> </p></div></div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>