<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2020-09"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2020-09" when="2020-09-08">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>8 September 2020</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM130</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-30783</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div><p><hi style="strong">Meeting time:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>EST 09:00–10:30, GMT 14:00–15:30, CEST 15:00–16:30</item>
<item>Started: 13:05Z     Ended: 14:33Z</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EB)</item>
<item>Meaghan Brown (MB)</item>
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>Nicholas Cole (NC)</item>
<item>Jessica Lu (JL)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
<item>Peter Stadler (PS)</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT) only joining late</item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV)</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Apologies/Not Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Vanessa Bigot Juloux</item>
</list><div type="h2"><head>Debriefing Release</head><list style="ul">
<item>HC reports that the Oxygen release was successfully performed. He recalls that he manually tweaked the updateSite.oxygen file. HC expects a write-up in a week or so.</item>
<item>Council discusses the need to continue releasing the Guidelines on sourceforge. Statistics about downloads from sourceforge
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/projects/tei/files/Stylesheets/stats/timeline?dates=2020-06-01%20to%202020-09-01&amp;period=monthly">https://sourceforge.net/projects/tei/files/Stylesheets/stats/timeline?dates=2020-06-01%20to%202020-09-01&amp;period=monthly</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://sourceforge.net/projects/tei/files/TEI-P5-all/stats/timeline?dates=2020-06-01%20to%202020-09-01&amp;period=monthly">https://sourceforge.net/projects/tei/files/TEI-P5-all/stats/timeline?dates=2020-06-01%20to%202020-09-01&amp;period=monthly</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Release minutes 4.1: <ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PJryKNeKIzUEpdFlaQaJAhO9F3XM23IU66lB3QRQmCU/edit?usp=sharing">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PJryKNeKIzUEpdFlaQaJAhO9F3XM23IU66lB3QRQmCU/edit?usp=sharing</ref></item>
<item>Action on HC to update the release documentation from the release minutes.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Update tests in Stylesheets repo</head><list style="ul">
<item>When you make schema-changing alteration to the Guidelines, a test is necessary.</item>
<item>When does the P5 subset need to be updated after schema changes?</item>
<item>We need to copy the P5 subset from the Guidelines repo to the Stylesheets repo and fix/update the tests. This should not happen too close to the release day.</item>
<item>We should be creating new tests when we create new elements / attributes. We’ll often forget to do that. And we have two different test repos / two places to make changes: tests vs. test2.</item>
<item>PS proposes to automate generation of P5: have a bot issue a PR to Stylesheets that we periodically review?</item>
<item>Now we can see all the test results at once—this is an option now (DIFFNOW=1).</item>
<item>TCW 22 should indicate that tests need to be updated when we freeze. And periodically. Quarterly? Or part of the monthly triage system?
<list style="ul">
<item>Copy P5 subset file to Stylesheets and run tests (This can be automated).</item>
<item>How to update the tests / write new ones? May need consultation on Council list.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><hi style="b">Action on PS</hi> (with HC &amp; NC) to set up a bot, report back <hi style="b">next month.</hi></item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>ISO invitation</head><list style="ul">
<item>The TEI consortium received an invitation from Detlef Reineke, the current chair of the ISO subcommittee ISO/TC 37/SC 3 “Management of terminology resources”. At their last SC 3 meeting they agreed to officially address an invitation to TEI to become a liaison member of our Subcommittee. <ref target="https://www.iso.org/committee/48136.html">https://www.iso.org/committee/48136.html</ref></item>
<item>Next meeting is June 2021 in Brussels (attendance not required). ISO doesn’t pay (TEI would pay).</item>
<item>Probably some knowledge exchange going both ways? Some of TEI (Feature Structure) is based on ISO.</item>
<item>Plus: If TEI is involved with ISO and there’s a joint release, we at least could make a new standard publicly available.</item>
<item>Minus: ISO procedures are slow  (and not public). Unknown amounts of work.</item>
<item><hi style="b">Action on MS: </hi>Ask Laurent to join us to discuss this with us. What are they doing, what would we be involved with? Maybe arrange a special meeting?</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Proposal to encode ruby glosses for Japanese texts</head><list style="ul">
<item>Add <gi>ruby</gi>, <gi>rb</gi>, and <gi>rt</gi></item>
<item><ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rRgBRYpxUlsnMEHbOPW-92u_AIMNwq9axGtpI1UGgz8/edit#heading=h.xjusjhhdlit2">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rRgBRYpxUlsnMEHbOPW-92u_AIMNwq9axGtpI1UGgz8/edit#heading=h.xjusjhhdlit2</ref></item>
<item>We need to transform the proposal in an ODD (SB volunteers) and open a ticket to get started.</item>
<item>Ask if it’s okay to share the Google Doc publicly from the github issue.</item>
<item><hi style="b">Action on MS</hi> to get permission to share the google doc and open an issue.</item>
<item>Invite proposers to VF2F in October.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Normalization of dates</head><list style="ul">
<item>Revisited by SB, giving a brief report on <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1885">#1885</ref>, ISO 8601-2:2019, and the lack of need for @from-iso, @to-iso, @notBefore-iso, and @notAfter-iso. (See “sydb-new_ISO_8601” branch.)</item>
<item>ISO has mechanisms for expressing seasons and approximate date ranges.</item>
<item>LOC standard (on which ISO is based) lacks processing software but is written in a formal grammar.</item>
<item>Temporal-ISO (newest one: 8601): regex needs to be fixed.</item>
<item>See <ref target="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=23786192">https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=23786192</ref> regarding possible implementations.</item>
<item>Our @from-iso, @to-iso, @notBefore-iso, @notAfter-iso can be expressed in ISO without using separate attributes. Would we want to phase out our attributes on this with a long deprecation period?</item>
<item>ISO 8601 costs ~$560 USD and the license is utterly restrictive.</item>
<item><hi style="b">Action on Council</hi> to check out SB’s branch and comment on it.</item>
<item>Continue discussion on attributes next time.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head><ref target="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xAlmpnLuL8-JPRNLbu6vwLCacxiNcnzCyJhpT27N8Eg/edit">@version</ref>: re-send email</head><list style="ul">
<item>SB suggests to send very brief e-mail should again on or about Tue 15 Sep. Just something like “Would anyone care if we removed the @version attribute from <gi>TEI</gi> and <gi>teiCorpus</gi>?”. <hi style="i">Someone</hi> will answer that “I don’t use it myself, but it is important to be able to say the version #” to which one of us will reply “but you can with &lt;?xml-model?&gt; or with <gi>schemaRef</gi>”.</item>
</list><p> </p></div></div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>