<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2021-02"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2021-02" when="2021-02-11">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>11 February 2021</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM137</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-30952</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div><p><hi style="strong">Meeting times: </hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>11am-12:30pm PST/2pm-3:30pm EST/7pm-8:30pm GMT/8pm-9:30pm CET</item>
<item>Started:    19:05Z    Ended:    ~20:25Z</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Helena Bermúdez Sabel (HBS)</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EB)</item>
<item>Meaghan Brown (MB ~19:50Z)</item>
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>Nicholas Cole (NC ~19:30Z)</item>
<item>Janelle Jenstad (JJ; assistant notetaker this month)</item>
<item>Jessica Lu (JL)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
<item>Peter Stadler (PS)</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT)</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Apologies/Not Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Raff Viglianti</item>
</list><p><hi style="b">Note:</hi> ticket triage table is near the end of this document.</p><div type="h2"><head>Meetings</head><list style="ul">
<item>Stylesheets call in February
<list style="ul">
<item>postponed to March 4</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Short virtual F2F meeting
<list style="ul">
<item>April 9/10 (no JL) or April 16/17 (no EBB)</item>
<item>May 7/8 works for everyone on the call. We need to ask RV
<list style="ul">
<item>May 7/8</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Next release</head><list style="ul">
<item>Release timeline
<list style="ul">
<item>Refridge: Fri 2021-02-12
<list style="ul">
<item>For new folks (JJ and HBS): It’s supposed to mean that we stop working on issues and turn to typos and reviewing. No more changes to the schema. Ticket owners: Relabel tickets that we can’t deal with for this release and label them for the next milestone.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Freeze: Fri 2021-02-19
<list style="ul">
<item>Means that we definitely should not change anything except typos, but it’s harder because the freeze techs make a new branch.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Release: Thu 2021-02-25</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Release techs: NC (lead), PS (assist), MB (note taker)</item>
<item>Open Guidelines issues with milestone 4.2.0: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Guidelines+4.2.0%22">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Guidelines+4.2.0%22</ref></item>
<item>Open Stylesheets issues with milestone 7.51.0: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues?q=milestone%3A%22Release+7.51.0%22">https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues?q=milestone%3A%22Release+7.51.0%22</ref></item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Review before next release</head><list style="ul">
<item>teiCorpus: make guidelines and data model consistent
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1823">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1823</ref></item>
<item>We need to solve this by 4.3.0, but it is too big a topic to discuss here and now.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>deprecation of locations of schemaSpecs
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2041">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2041</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Review: FR: Declarative Citation Structure
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1957">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1957</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/1983">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/1983</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Proposal: new element <gi>persPronouns</gi>
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2010">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2010</ref></item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2104">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2104</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>problems with match= (part of att.scoping)
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2078">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2078</ref></item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Warn if an attDef with a non-colonized @ident has a @ns attribute
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2069">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2069</ref></item>
<item>SB says we probably don’t want to pull this in because maybe we need to handle this in Stylesheets. Connected to Stylesheets <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/237">#237</ref> or it seems another Stylesheets conversation. NOT for this release–needs discussion. <hi style="b">Action on HC</hi> to add comment to PR.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>encoding of ruby glosses
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2054">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2054</ref></item>
<item>status: CLOSED</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>type= on interpLike elements
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2053">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2053</ref></item>
<item><hi style="b">Action on PS and MS</hi> to review</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>add new class “att.predicate”
<list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2105">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2105</ref></item>
<item><hi style="b">Action on SB</hi> to review</item>
</list>
</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>GitHub guidelines</head><list style="ul">
<item>Discussion of GitHub merge protocols. Who should merge? Do we need guidelines on how to do the ticket review and merge? Perhaps, but not rules. PS likes contributing guidelines in a repo. New folks like JJ would appreciate them.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>AOB</head><list style="ul">
<item>SB reports on regular meetings with CMC group and the plan to get issue into the next release.</item>
<item>NC will open a discussion on “diplomatic” – meaning, origins – or not?
<list style="ul">
<item>Shillingsburg, Peter L. 1986. <hi style="i">Scholarly Editing in the Computer Age: Theory and Practice</hi>. The University of Georgia Press. p. 170.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>PS notes new feature of GitHub called “Discussions”
<list style="ul">
<item>Maybe inaugurate it as a new space of conversation at the TEI Conference</item>
<item>Not quite opening new tickets, and also not quite going to the email list.</item>
<item>Beginner friendly!</item>
</list>
</item>
</list></div></div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>