<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2021-10">
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title>
    <meeting n="2021-10" from="2021-10-01" to="2021-10-02">TEI Technical Council online meeting :
     <date>1–2 October 2021</date></meeting>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <distributor>TEI Website</distributor>
    <idno>TCM145</idno>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc>
    <p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p>
   </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
   <change when="2023-04-26">Archival header confected</change>
   <change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-31191</change>
  </revisionDesc>
 </teiHeader>
 <text>
  <body>
   <div>
    <p><hi style="strong">Meeting Times</hi></p>
    <table>

     <row>
      <cell><hi style="b">Friday, Oct 1</hi></cell>
      <cell>13:00–16:00 PST 16:00–19:00 EST</cell>
      <cell>North American break-outs</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell><hi style="b">Saturday, Oct 2</hi></cell>
      <cell>09:00–12:00 BST 10:00–13:00 CET</cell>
      <cell>European break-outs</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell/>
      <cell>
       <p>06:00–10:00 PST</p>
       <p>09:00–13:00 EST</p>
       <p>14:00–18:00 BST</p>
       <p>15:00–19:00 CET</p></cell>
      <cell>Council meeting</cell>
     </row>

    </table>
    <p><hi style="strong">Attendance</hi></p>
    <table>

     <row>
      <cell/>
      <cell>Fri, North American-Group</cell>
      <cell>Sat, European Group</cell>
      <cell>Sat, Full Council</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Syd Bauman</cell>
      <cell>X</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Helena Bermúdez Sabel</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>X</cell>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Meaghan Brown</cell>
      <cell>X</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>
       <p>Elisa Beshe­ro-</p>
       <p>Bondar</p></cell>
      <cell>X</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Hugh Cayless</cell>
      <cell>X</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Janelle Jenstad</cell>
      <cell>excused</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Jessica H. Lu</cell>
      <cell>X</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Martina Scholger</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>x</cell>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Peter Stadler</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>x</cell>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Magdalena Turska</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>x</cell>
      <cell>x</cell>
     </row>
     <row>
      <cell>Raff Viglianti</cell>
      <cell>excused</cell>
      <cell/>
      <cell>excused</cell>
     </row>

    </table>
    <p> </p>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>&gt; Friday, October 1 (North American break-outs)</head>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>Work on <ref target="#guidelinesIssues">Guideline issues</ref></head>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>&gt; Saturday, October 2 (European break-outs)</head>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>Continue with Guidelines issues</head>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>&gt; Saturday, October 2 (Full Council)</head>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>Report on OxGarage</head>
     <list style="ul">
      <item>PS reports that his colleague, Anne Ferger, is working on MEIGarage for a couple of
       years and may end up doing a lot on TEIGarage.</item>
      <item>The group in Paderborn has created several new repos — the set-up is much cleaner
       now.</item>
      <item>There are two main repos: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/oxgarage">OxGarage</ref>
       and <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEIGarage">TEIgarage</ref>. PS recommends archiving
       OxGarage since there is no longer a connection to Oxford and since “TEIGarage” is more
       parallel to other “garages” like MEIgarage. Some issues: <list style="ul">
       <item>We would like to build a community around the garage.</item>
       <item>Is the TEIGarage Council’s responsibility? PS: Council should organize the community
        that maintains/develops it. Make it a sub-community. <list style="ul">
        <item>Invite Anne Ferger and James Cummings to a Council meeting to discuss how to proceed
         in the near future. Council agrees to invite them for the November meeting.</item>
        </list> </item>
       <item>How is the community building organized for MEI? — It is still too early, but the
        community building is planned as soon as the project has further progressed.</item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>Council agreed on the new name “TEIGarage” for the former OxGarage.</item>
     </list>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head><ref target="https://github.com/TEI-CMC-SIG/TEI/tree/cmc-features">CMC</ref>:
      computer-mediated communication</head>
     <list style="ul">
      <item>Should @generatedBy become a global attribute?</item>
      <item>In the fork of the <hi style="i">Guidelines</hi> that the CMC group is creating (which
       is a copy of P5 with the added CMC chapter) the new @generatedBy is not global, but rather is
       on some 144 elements. (2nd most popular attribute, SB thinks — @type is on 230
       elements.)</item>
      <item>Posts from humans may be punctuated by text from the bot or system.</item>
      <item>Differentiating the @generatedBy values of “system” versus “bot” can be difficult (but
       that’s the encoder’s problem, not ours).</item>
      <item>Discussion on @generatedBy vs @resp: @resp conveys intention (the person who decided to
       encode it as having been generated).</item>
      <item>Do machines have agency? What about the people behind the bot messages?</item>
      <item>FWIW, MH is in favour of globality of @generatedBy.</item>
      <item>PS suggests @method (but we already have an @method).</item>
      <item>SB: suggests @generationMethod? EBB likes @generatedBy. What about @method? (We already
       have correction/@method, normalization/@method, and variantEncoding/@method.)</item>
     </list>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>Discussion on concepts of gender and sex or equivalent</head>
     <list style="ul">
      <item>SB brought the issue to table. Wondering if we should be proactive instead of waiting
       for someone to ask us to change it.</item>
      <item>JL: Our students are noticing that the <gi>sex</gi> element is weird and off-putting.
       Students find the definition strange, esp. its insistent pointing to biology. Even if not
       formally (via tickets), people are already asking.</item>
      <item>What’s the solution? Should we have two elements? <list style="ul">
       <item>Probably need <gi>gender</gi> in addition to <gi>sex</gi> instead of using <gi>sex</gi>
        with a @type to capture gender.</item>
       <item>Note that there is a @sex attribute but not a @gender attribute.</item>
       <item>We think that we should add both a <gi>gender</gi> element and a @gender
        attribute.</item>
       <item>Would <gi>trait</gi> or <gi>state</gi> do? Some discussion about the fact that we
        already have <gi>sex</gi> and @sex.</item>
       <item>MT: Rather than expand, creating new elements for every feature of a person that comes
        along that folks want to encode, perhaps we should lean towards collapsing to <gi>state</gi>
        &amp; <gi>trait</gi>.</item>
       <item>JJ: This is not the issue on which to stake a claim about TEI principles (more or fewer
        elements).</item>
       <item>JL: No one on Council is a gender and sexuality scholar (except some of us have worked
        on history of sex and gender projects). We need some queer studies and trans studies and
        bona fide gender studies people to weigh in. (Even if we end up with minimalist definitions,
        as PS had suggested; i.e. something like “<gi>gender</gi> is used to record the person or
        persona’s gender”.)</item>
       <item>JL: This isn’t the start of a slippery slope of imagining endless elements for various
        traits/characteristics; no one is suggesting <gi>fashionSense</gi>. Sex and gender are
        essential to human experience and are therefore reflected meaningfully in text.</item>
       <item>Ideas for simple definitions in guidelines: <gi>sex</gi> as distinct from
        <gi>gender</gi>; <gi>gender</gi> as distinct from <gi>sex</gi> (and then a project can
        mobilize its own definitions of sex and gender).</item>
       <item>Discussion: Should we take a very minimal approach, or is that too reductive?</item>
       <item>JL: We need to address the concerns of the community and invite discussion. Perhaps
        solicit input from TEI-L and GitHub Discussions regarding definitions and examples.</item>
       <item>PS: Keep element definition simple. It will be a bit thornier to describe elements <ref
        target="https://tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ND.html#NDPERSbp">in the
        chapter</ref> (e.g., <ref
        target="https://tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ND.html#NDPERSEpc">¶13.3.2.1
        Personal Characteristics</ref>)<hi style="b">.</hi></item>
       <item>HC: Maybe we should draft a tagdoc to propose the element with a very minimal
        description, and share it with the community for discussion and revision.</item>
       <item>teidata.sex: Why is this necessary? Should it be used for gender? SB: it’s a “hook”
        because people want this. HC: Why not make it teidata.enumerated (as a hint that you should
        have a value list here). SB: The definition of the hook should be teidata.enumerated, but
        still want the hook so customizers need change in only 1 place, not 4 (or, if we use same
        datatype for gender, 8).</item>
       <item>What to do? Start by opening an issue. Possibly 3 issues. <list style="ul">
        <item><gi>gender</gi> element and @gender attribute</item>
        <item>Alter the datatypes? (either 2 or 0)</item>
        <item>Revising chapter language</item>
        <item>[SB: Revising the chapter language goes hand-in-hand with creating the element and
         attribute. Altering datatypes could probably be done separately or at the same
         time.]</item>
        </list> </item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>JJ’s note to self: “Furthermore, while some characteristics will obviously change over
       time, hair colour for example, none, in principle—not even sex—is immutable.” → We need to
       rephrase that sentence! (<ref
       target="https://tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ND.html#NDPERSbp"
       >https://tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ND.html#NDPERSbp</ref>)</item>
      <item>JJ’s note to self: Rethink this claim: “An actor does not change their persona when
       adopting a different role, but none of the personas associated with one person can properly
       be associated with another.”
       (https://tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ND.html#NDPERSEpc)</item>
      <item>EBB opened tickets and assigned JJ, EBB, and HBS.</item>
     </list>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>Reminder: <ref
      target="https://docs.google.com/document/u/0/d/1nAi_6pB1ayTV3SYAsrf8InKL1T5n8DAdgdhf-o5RSM8/edit"
      >Checking pointers</ref></head>
     <list style="ul">
      <item>Set deadline, self-assign <list style="ul">
       <item>While we did not explicitly set a deadline, SB would like to see this published by
        2021-10-31.</item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>JJ will edit the prose of TCW32.</item>
     </list>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>Exemplum and language issue</head>
     <list style="ul">
      <item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1933"
       >https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1933</ref></item>
      <item>@xml:lang refers to the language of the example.</item>
      <item>In the processing it is used to decide to which translation of the Guidelines it
       belongs.</item>
      <item>If there is no example in the current language, the English examples appear in the
       specifications.</item>
      <item>If there is one example in the current language, only this example appears.</item>
      <item>Proposals so far: <list style="ul">
       <item>output all examples in all languages</item>
       <item>Introduce new <gi>exemplumGrp</gi> for grouping examples that are identical
        translations.</item>
       <item>Introduce new attribute on <gi>exemplum</gi>, meaning that this example should appear
        in all specs <list style="ul">
        <item>@show=”true|false”</item>
        <item>@priority=”xs:integer”</item>
        <item>with <gi>exemplumGrp</gi>, apply @newTargetLang=”language-tag|ALL” (BCP 47 already
         includes “mul” (multiple) so we could use that to mean “all”) <list style="ul">
         <item>@newTargetLang with <gi>exemplumGrp</gi> can help indicate fallback languages when
          the preferred is not available, or to group multiple preferred languages together.</item>
         <item>Should we use the existing @targetLang attribute? As used on <gi>schemaSpec</gi>,
          it’s similar but not exactly what we need here.</item>
         <item>We need this attribute to allow multiple values which isnot currently the case for
          @targetLang.</item>
         </list> </item>
        <item>Possible names for the new attributes: <list style="ul">
         <item> [@outputLangs] </item>
         <item>@targetLangs (Council’s decision)<hi style="b"> </hi></item>
         <item> [@reqLangs] </item>
         <item> [@inLangs] </item>
         </list> </item>
        </list> </item>
       </list> </item>
     </list>
     <list style="ul">
      <item> <list style="ul">
       <item/>
       </list> </item>
     </list>
     <list style="ul">
      <item> <list style="ul">
       <item>Proposal (to solve language problem): <gi>exemplumGrp</gi>, content model { exemplum+ }
        to be used for sets of redundant examples; it has Schematron check that one and only one
        child <gi>exemplum</gi> has @targetLangs of “mul”. Heuristics are that the processor chooses
        one and only one child <gi>exemplum</gi> for the output, looking at @targetLangs and trying
        to choose best. If it can’t find a match at all, it chooses the “mul”. (EBB added to
        ticket).</item>
       </list> </item>
     </list>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>Schedule a blue-sky discussion</head>
     <list style="ul">
      <item>Capacity to express the TEI in other ways: XML + TAGML + HTML + JSON + ?</item>
      <item>Issue of how difficult it is to “correct” content models for existing elements: MT: very
       complicated and fragile: “like pulling a thread and causing the fabric to unravel”. Address
       things that are valid and don’t make sense. How to make TEI more manageable for the
       future?</item>
      <item>SB: Make it so classes are properly inherited.</item>
      <item>HC: If not inheritance, composability.</item>
      <item>MT: We could be writing position papers proposing new/alternative ways of organizing the
       TEI <list style="ul">
       <item>Call for Proposals for 2022 or 2023 TEI Conference.</item>
       <item>This will take multiple years.</item>
       <item>Talk to James Cummings first regarding planning for the 2022 Conference. Or Council
        could call for a panel.</item>
       </list> </item>
      <item>What is the “Durand conundrum”? Pure ODD vs. Relax NG. What if we used Relax NG as the
       underlying schema language rather than PureODD? Compare it with DocBook, which runs this way.
       Look at JATS for its documentation methodology (not its DTD schema).</item>
      <item>Also consider Laruent Romary’s “crystals” proposal (of 2012).</item>
      <item>SB: If we are going to move to a P6, maybe we should not <ref
       target="https://wiki.tei-c.org/index.php?title=New_ODD_processing#goals">rewrite the
       Stylesheets</ref>.</item>
     </list>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head>AOB</head>
     <list style="ul">
      <item>Restructure Council page on the TEI website: <ref
       target="https://tei-c.org/activities/council/">https://tei-c.org/activities/council/</ref>
       <list style="ul">
       <item>Would it be nice to add pictures of us? Or graphics? Caricatures?</item>
       <item>Council members should be able to opt out.</item>
       <item>This would be a new expectation to communicate to Council members.</item>
       <item>Idea to help us be approachable/recognizable to the TEI Community.</item>
       <item>Photos make us vulnerable to judgements about race, ethnicity, gender. Can also
        emphasize we are human beings and approachable.</item>
       </list> </item>
     </list>
    </div>
    <div type="h2">
     <head/>
     <div type="h3">
      <head>Guidelines issues</head>
      <p>Group A: HC, MB, EB, SB, JL</p>
      <p>Group B: PS, HBS, MS</p>
      <table>

       <row>
        <cell>No.</cell>
        <cell>Group</cell>
        <cell>Title</cell>
        <cell>Comment</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#1800</cell>
        <cell/>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1800">more on dictionary: The element
         <gi>usg</gi> inside <gi>def</gi></ref></cell>
        <cell>
         <p>Comment from last VF2F (May):</p>
         <p>Subgroup suggests that RV should go with brute force approach (proposal 1). [usg is
         already allowed in cit, so does not need to be taken care of anymore]</p>
         <p>→ postponed until RV is back</p></cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#1879</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1879">New element listNote as a
         wrapper for note elements</ref></cell>
        <cell>
         <p>Comment from last VF2F (May): Remaining question is if we could use
         <gi>listAnnotation</gi> instead of implementing <gi>listNote</gi> as agreed earlier.
         Nevertheless, <gi>listAnnotation</gi> is only allowed in very specific contexts (related to
         standoff uses) and is also likely to have its content extended. For that reason, the
         subgroup thinks it’s better to keep things clearly separated and have <gi>listNote</gi> be
         a member of model.listLike with a narrow content model of <gi>note</gi> and usual
         <gi>desc</gi>, <gi>head</gi> etc.</p>
         <p>Comment from VF2F (October): Subgroup: Argument in favor of <gi>listNote</gi> in
         addition to the currently available <gi>noteGrp</gi> is that  <gi>listNote</gi> groups
         together a list of different notes, whereas <gi>noteGroup</gi> groups together a set of
         notes that are basically the same but are in alternate languages or are alternate versions
         (e.g., for different audiences). So, do we need <gi>listNote</gi>?</p>
         <p>Council: GREEN</p>
         <p>Council 2019 decided in favor of both <gi>noteGrp</gi> and <gi>listNote</gi></p>
         <p>Council discussion: <gi>listNote</gi> should include <gi>noteGrp</gi>.</p> <list
         style="ul">
         <item>Allow <gi>listNote</gi> as child of <gi>front</gi>, <gi>body</gi>, <gi>back</gi>, and
          <gi>div</gi></item>
         <item>also more generally available in the <gi>teiHeader</gi> (as alternative to
          unstructured <gi>p</gi> content)?</item>
         <item>Also, inside <gi>person</gi>, <gi>place</gi>, <gi>event</gi></item>
         <item>membership in model.listlike?</item>
         <item>probably it’s not a good idea to make <gi>listNote</gi> available globally just like
          <gi>note</gi>.</item>
         <item>Follow attributes used on other list elements.</item>
         </list> </cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#1916</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1916">Corpus Exemplar should more
         explicitly state what it’s for</ref></cell>
        <cell>
         <p>Comment from last VF2F (May):</p>
         <p>Subgroup is in favour of removing Corpus from Exemplars. If someone has a community
         behind and wants to rework the example she/he should open a new issue.</p>
         <p>Comment from VF2F (October):</p>
         <p>SB suggests that everything labeled “template” on the table in this ticket should
         probably be removed. We should review these to make sure we agree — is there anything
         helpfully exemplary here? But we should consult Piotr Banski before deleting the corpus
         one, as he intends to write a replacement.</p>
         <p>Council discussion: is this just cleaning up a legacy mess? Maybe alert the TEI-listserv
         and Piotr. Action on MS: Ask Piotr to develop his new file, and let him know we’re
         intending to remove this along with other old files.</p>
         <p>Should we remove some of these from oXygen and the Exemplars directory, but preserve
         them as sample ODD files elsewhere (<ref
         target="https://tei-c.org/guidelines/customization/"
         >https://tei-c.org/guidelines/customization/</ref>).</p> <list style="ul">
         <item>Move to another directory like ODD-Stubs</item>
         <item>Find out whether oXygen is pulling directly from Exemplars/, and how.</item>
         </list> </cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#1929</cell>
        <cell/>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1929">What is a paragraph,
         really?</ref></cell>
        <cell>Sub-subgroup of HC and EB suggests we consider moving <gi>ab</gi> to core, and closing
         this ticket if there are no other actionable items.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#1978</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/1978">Documentation</ref></cell>
        <cell>Subgroup: We have some documentation in the Documents folder in the TEIC/TEI repo and
         some in the TEIC/Documentation repo.Issues: Should all the documentation be in TEI
         [encoding]? How should it be organized? Should some of the older documentation be
         consolidated and made TCWs?Should TEIC/TEI/Documents be cleaned up and collapsed into
         TEIC/Documentation?Some things can be moved to the Vault. But check on things that have
         been kept hidden and should see the light of day.Subgroup proposes that we maybe form a
         Council subcommittee to work on this next year.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2053</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2035">naming and description of TEI
         Simple Print and TEI Lite</ref></cell>
        <cell>Discussion on the ticket does not lead to a clear action item. Subgroup proposes we
         check in with MT re: this ticket and last October’s Slack discussion of Vanilla and
         resulting meetings. If Vanilla conversations have evolved into something more clearly
         actionable, can we close the ticket? (Remember: texts are complex; data modelling is hard
         work.)</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2045</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2045">calendar= should not be in
         att.datable</ref></cell>
        <cell>Subgroup suggests Council review the <ref
         target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2045#issuecomment-731271583">list</ref> of
         elements where @calendar is appropriate, and decide whether Duncan’s objections are
         reasonable, and whether if we proceed, there should be a deprecation period.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2046</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2046">reports in jTEI</ref></cell>
        <cell>Action on EB to review if <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2057">PR</ref>
         appropriately addresses the issue and, if so, close ticket. EB: Yes, it does — <hi
         style="b">closed</hi>.<hi style="b"> </hi></cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2048</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2048">@who for
         <gi>span</gi></ref></cell>
        <cell>SB suggests that @match might be a better resolution for the OP than @who. Value ought
         to be an XPath rather than a pointer. Subgroup veers toward close/wontfix, and posting more
         on the ticket to help OP.  SB suggests we consider adding span to att.scoping, though this
         may be tricky because it is already a member of att.pointing which has an @target.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2064</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2064">Tickets should be Triaged for
         Difficulty and Labelled.</ref></cell>
        <cell>Recognizing (1) the increasing number of ticket labels already in use, and (2) the
         subjectivity of “difficulty” for Councilmembers and users of varying expertise, subgroup
         believes this change would require more effort than it’s worth. closed/wontfix.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2067</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2067">@assertedValue of
         <gi>certainty</gi> should also accept pointers</ref></cell>
        <cell>Subgroup prompts original poster to respond to SB comment of 2020-12-13.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2070</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2070">Make file points at non-existent
         files</ref></cell>
        <cell>SB locates the problem spot in to.xsl, and gets himself added to the ticket.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2071</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2071">description of “URI” in
         idno/@type</ref></cell>
        <cell>HC suggests just pointing to the RFC for URI.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2072</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2072">change the content model of
         exemplum</ref></cell>
        <cell>Subgroup suggestion: Let’s introduce <gi>exemplumGrp</gi> because we have a
         considerable number of exempla with accompanying prose. Also this is analogous to
         <gi>noteGrp</gi>, etc. But this might open up a can of worms for processing.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2076</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2076">improvements to SG-oth: order of
         sub-sections, XML declaration, encoding</ref></cell>
        <cell>Subgroup expresses profound skepticism that LB addressed all of SB’s points on this
         ticket. Seriously, much of this language needs to be updated. Assign SB to pursue
         revisions, with JJ for proofreading.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2083</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2083">typos, encoding corrections, and
         word-smithing SATS</ref></cell>
        <cell>Action on HC to continue with checklist (half already presumed finished).</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2084</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2084">moderately problematic issues in
         SATS</ref></cell>
        <cell>Subgroup suggests additional Councilmembers join HC in reviewing the checklist,
         especially RV (if available).</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2085</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2085">re-defining Node in
         SATS?</ref></cell>
        <cell>ditto</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2086</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2086">uber-ticket for
         SATS</ref></cell>
        <cell>ditto [here be dragons]</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2089</cell>
        <cell>A</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2089">Inconsistent prohibition of the
         use of <gi>p</gi> directly under <gi>div1</gi></ref></cell>
        <cell>Close won’t fix</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2090</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2090">per-document defaults (of
         attribute values)</ref></cell>
        <cell>Totally sensible workflow-wise but do we need it in the standard? This introduces some
         convenience but not something meaningful from a modelling perspective.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2093</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2093">Check consistency of tagdocs
         desc elements</ref></cell>
        <cell>status green, go ahead</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2095</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2095">Update the prose for
         <gi>witness</gi></ref></cell>
        <cell>
         <p>There is room for improvement but nothing really wrong. Get back to Nicolas Cole about
         the original concern?</p>
         <p>Perhaps add an example illustrating the use of <gi>witness</gi> with msDesc/bibl/object
         children instead of just text description or mixed, unstructured content.</p></cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2098</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2098">Change title of
         11.3.1</ref></cell>
        <cell>Make yellow green to come up with a proposal.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2106</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2106">broken links to non-English
         bibliography entries from examples-* pages</ref></cell>
        <cell>Subgroup suggests to merge <gi>listBibl</gi> (with different @xml:lang) into one and
         move those @xml:lang one level down to the <gi>bibl</gi> element. Keep @xml:lang for
         historical reasons or nuke them?</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2110</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2110">Ruby: Multiple ruby streams in
         the same orientation</ref></cell>
        <cell>Subgroup proposes to add those examples to the Guidelines but refrains from adding
         “right-right” or similar to suggested values of @place. If one is interested in detailing
         topographic information, use @facs on <gi>rt</gi>. Or, when not wanting to rely on a
         document sequence, use @n in addition.</cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2111</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2111">Ruby Schematron rules result in
         warnings</ref></cell>
        <cell>
         <p>Subgroup proposes to maybe leave the constraint at the attribute level but introduce a
         sch:rule with context to remedy these warnings, like &lt;sch:rule
         context=”tei:rt[@target]”&gt;</p>
         <p>&lt;sch:report test=”@from | @to”&gt;When target= is</p>
         <p>present, neither from= nor to= should be.&lt;/sch:report&gt;</p>
         <p>&lt;/sch:rule&gt;</p>
         <p>still, file a bug report to the STF project</p></cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2114</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2114">@lang attributes missing in HTML
         output</ref></cell>
        <cell>
         <p>Mark yellow green and stick with the language issues (no further improvements to
         accessibility yet). The accessibility issue should be a different ticket.</p>
         <p>SB: Could someone from the European subgroup explain the above comment a bit further?
         What is yellow “needs discussion” about this, and what should be a different
         ticket?</p></cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2132</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2132">Additional version/date
         attributes for gaiji description</ref></cell>
        <cell>
         <p>How about renaming the att.styleDef</p>
         <p>into att.schemeDef with attributes @scheme and @schemeVersion, eg. CSS 2.1 and Unicode
         12.0 and change the @schemeVersion datatype teidata.versionNumber to accommodate e.g semver
         ranges like &gt;=1.2.7 &lt;1.3.0; alternatively @maxVersion @minVersion</p></cell>
       </row>
       <row>
        <cell>#2136</cell>
        <cell>B</cell>
        <cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2136">Use PureODD inside attribute
         lists</ref></cell>
        <cell>Subgroup recommends to deprecate @org on <gi>attList</gi> and use schematron rules
         instead. A few elements use &lt;attList org=””&gt; at the moment, e.g. <gi>relation</gi>.
         These would have to be re-written.</cell>
       </row>

      </table>
      <p> </p>
     </div>
    </div>
   </div>
  </body>
  <!-- #post-## -->
 </text>
</TEI>
