<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2021-12"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2021-12" when="2021-12-09">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>9 December 2021</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM148</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-31229</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div><p><hi style="strong">Meeting times: </hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>10:30am–12:00pm PDT, 1:30pm–3:00pm EDT, 6:30pm–8:00pm BST, 7:30pm–9:00pm CEST</item>
<item>Started:     18:33Z    Ended:    20:07Z</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Helena Bermudez Sabel (HBS)</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EBB)</item>
<item>Meaghan Brown (MB)</item>
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>Janelle Jenstad (JJ)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS)</item>
<item>Sabine Seifert (SS)</item>
<item>Peter Stadler (PS)</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT)</item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV)</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Apologies/Not Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Elli Bleeker (EB)</item>
<item>Jessica Lu (JL)</item>
</list><p> </p><div type="h2"><head>New meeting times for 2022</head><list style="ul">
<item>MS to send out a poll, either <ref target="https://doodle.com/en/">Doodle</ref> or <ref target="https://www.when2meet.com/">When2Meeet</ref></item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>VSF2F meeting 2022</head><list style="ul">
<item>Consensus is to plan VSF2F in 2022-03, and real F2F at the TEI conference in 2022-09.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Ticket Triage, minute review, and P5 update assignment</head><list style="ul">
<item>Table for 2022 is at the end of this document, please add your initials.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Next Stylesheets meeting</head><list style="ul">
<item>Thu 16 Dec (usual time: 18:30Z)</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Stylesheets task force</head><list style="ul">
<item>We need a formal charge. <hi style="b">Action on EBB, JJ, HBS, SS</hi> will work on this by January meeting. The charge can be short, just a few paragraphs.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Council chair elections</head><list style="ul">
<item>Nominations:
<list style="ul">
<item>SB nominated MS, JJ seconds; MS elected chair for calendar 2022.</item>
<item>Plan (or at least, vague idea) is for JJ to become chair for calendar 2023.</item>
</list>
</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Whitespace in URIs</head><list style="ul">
<item>See <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2204#issuecomment-981709846">PR</ref> for current state of restricting anyURI to not have spaces. Branch: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/tree/sydb_issue-2185_URI_spaces">sydb_issue-2185_URI_spaces.</ref></item>
<item>What is the proper path forward?</item>
<item>SB &amp; MH have implemented solution 1.i. Do we need to discuss percent-encoding (i.e., solution 1.iii), and if so, where?
<list style="ul">
<item>Consensus seems to be yes, we do need to discuss it.</item>
<item>Suggested places are in the <ref target="https://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/ref-teidata.pointer.html">teidata.pointer</ref> tagdoc and somewhere in module <ref target="https://tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/en/html/SA.html">16 Linking, Segmentation, and Alignment</ref>. <hi style="b">Action on HC </hi>by<hi style="b"> 2022-01-28</hi> to determine where, exactly, and write first draft of prose.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Does anyone know what an XPointer processor does if it finds a space or a “%20” in the fragment identifier?</item>
<item>This probably needs a follow up ticket for the Stylesheets to check our handling of attributes that use teidata.pointer: check whether the Stylesheets properly handle whitespace as separator (and do proper URL decoding where needed?)</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>TCW32</head><list style="ul">
<item>Open issues:
<list style="ul">
<item>1 more example to write (SB)</item>
<item>Testing examples #10 and #15 (EBB completed #10, will complete #15 in Dec)</item>
<item>Testing examples #17, #18, #19 (now MS #17, and HBS #18 and #19)</item>
<item>Proofreading prose (JJ is still working on it)</item>
<item>MS &amp; SB need to talk about errors example #09 (and #08) (SB &amp; MS)</item>
<item>Checking over the entire document (JC)</item>
<item>Work on #11 and new, similar but more thorough, example (SB &amp; RV)</item>
</list>
</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Thank yous</head><list style="ul">
<item>Thank you, Jessica and Meaghan for your service on the TEI Council!</item>
</list><p> </p></div><div type="h2"><head>Issues from SVF2F meeting</head><table>

<row>
<cell>No.</cell>
<cell>Group</cell>
<cell>Title</cell>
<cell>Comment</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>#2045</cell>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2045">calendar= should not be in att.datable</ref></cell>
<cell><p>Subgroup suggests Council review the <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2045#issuecomment-731271583">list</ref> of elements where @calendar is appropriate, and decide whether Duncan’s objections are reasonable, and whether if we proceed, there should be a deprecation period.</p>
<p><hi style="b">2021-12-09</hi>: Discussion: RV will add a comment on the ticket on the issue of sloppy encoding to help progress this. RV → done</p></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>#2106</cell>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2106">broken links to non-English bibliography entries from examples-* pages</ref></cell>
<cell><p>Subgroup proposal: merge <gi>listBibl</gi> (with different xml:lang) into one and move those @xml:lang one level down to the <gi>bibl</gi>. Keep @xml:lang for historical reasons or nuke them?</p>
<p><hi style="b">2021-12-09</hi>: HBS will look to see if we have any examples of a bibliographic resource expressed in multiple languages, and if we do, to try to merge them into one entry. Move the @xml:lang into the freshly merged <gi>listBibl</gi> then.</p></cell>
</row>

</table><p> </p></div></div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>