<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2022-04"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2022-04" from="2022-04-01" to="2022-04-02">TEI Technical
     Council online meeting : <date>1–2 April 2022</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM152</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-31301</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div><p><hi style="strong">Meeting Times:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>7am PDT / 10am EDT / 4pm CEST</item>
<item>Started:     14:06Z    Ended:    15:36Z</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Helena Bermúdez Sabel (HBS)</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EBB) (left at 15:34Z)</item>
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>Janelle Jenstad (JJ)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS, Chair)</item>
<item>Sabine Seifert (SS)</item>
<item>Peter Stadler (PS)</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT)</item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV)</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Apologies/Not Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Elli Bleeker (EB)</item>
</list><p>Meeting minutes from virtual F2F (<ref target="https://tei-c.org/activities/council/meetings/tei-technical-council-short-vf2f-meeting-online-1-2-april-2021/">April</ref>)</p><div type="h2"><head>F2F meeting in Newcastle</head><list style="ul">
<item>James Cummings will check dates and room bookings. There is a chance we’d have to be in a different room in an adjacent building on the weekend.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Issues to discuss for the release</head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2253">#2253</ref> List ref issue 2209
<list style="ul">
<item>RV will review the issue and merge the pull request.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2204">#2204</ref> Address <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2185">#2185</ref> by restricting anyURI to not have spaces
<list style="ul">
<item>Confirm with SB that PR is ready to merge.</item>
<item>SB: Seems to be ready to me. 2 reviewers have said it’s OK.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>#<ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2213">2213</ref>: att.datable.custom is under-documented
<list style="ul">
<item>moved to 4.5.0 milestone</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2110">#2110</ref> Multiple ruby streams in the same orientation
<list style="ul">
<item>the anchors should be removed in the parallel approach; implement the nested example as suggested by Kiyonori Nagasaki as an alternative approach.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2070">#2070</ref> Make file points at non-existent files
<list style="ul">
<item>Brief discussion yields desire to try to fix processing (maybe for this release) and corrigible errors in release notes; and perhaps raise a ticket for whether or not we actually want to re-generate release notes every build.</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Guidelines milestone 4.4.0: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Guidelines+4.4.0%22">https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Guidelines+4.4.0%22</ref></item>
<item>Stylesheets milestone 7.53.0: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Release+7.53.0%22">https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22Release+7.53.0%22</ref></item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>New section on TEI website for “How Tos”</head><list style="ul">
<item>JJ will come up with a proposal in the next meeting.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Issues from previous SVF2F meeting</head><p>Lengthy test of adding namespaced attributes in response to <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2069">#2069</ref> and <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/237#issuecomment-285476102">#237 comment</ref>. <hi style="b">Action </hi>on <hi style="b">SB </hi>by 2022-04-07: attach test ODD to ticket. We need to look at this with the full group.</p></div><div type="h2"><head>Guidelines Pull requests:</head><table>

<row>
<cell>No.</cell>
<cell>Group</cell>
<cell>Title</cell>
<cell>Comment</cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/1996">#1996</ref></cell>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/1996">align teidata.version with Semantic Versioning Specification, closes #1993</ref></cell>
<cell><p>NA subgroup: we (Council) need to poke PS. For the 2nd bullet point we think this should be a “soft” requirement: Just recommend that @version matches; don’t actually validate it.</p>
<p>2022-04-08: Add language to indicate that for the TEI Guidelines we’re inspired by the semantic versioning conventions but we’re applying our own TEI conventions to it (not following the custom for identifying “major” / “minor”.)</p></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2069">#2069</ref></cell>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2069">Warn if an attDef with a non-colonized @ident has a @ns attribute</ref></cell>
<cell><p>NA subgroup suggests a solution involving @ident and @altIdent when we specify the @ns, that solves the problem (we think) without changes required to TEI/Stylesheets. SB uploaded a sample ODD file.</p>
<p>2022-04-08: Council decided to reject PR.</p></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2143">#2143</ref></cell>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2143">new langKnown example + bib ref</ref></cell>
<cell><p>NA subgroup: Connected to ticket <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2139">#2139</ref> which needs discussion. Check on #2143 is running; it will take 6 hours. We should ask Stuart Yeates to update his branch with changes from our dev, and make the small change requested. If he doesn’t respond we should recheck this in from a new branch we make.</p>
<p>2022-04-08: HBS will implement it as soon as she finished work on the bibliography.</p></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2156">#2156</ref></cell>
<cell>A</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2156">improve prose, constrain value of global source= attr</ref></cell>
<cell><p>NA subgroup discovers that sch:let is not permitted as a child of <gi>constraint</gi>, and that is the reason tests are failing. We think this is very strange, especially because our schema says it’s allowed.</p>
<p>2022-04-08: Council realized the build error problem is due to the positioning of the sch:let in the <gi>constraintSpec</gi>. SB will fix this.</p></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>#2188</cell>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2188">Fix #2187, I hope</ref></cell>
<cell><p>E subgroup: Left message in the PR regarding the failing of the test.</p>
<p>2022-04-08: Council decides for &lt;contraintSpec schema=”schematron” ident=”blort” mode=”delete” /&gt;</p></cell>
</row>
<row>
<cell>#2185</cell>
<cell>B</cell>
<cell><ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2204">Address #2185 by restricting anyURI to not have spaces</ref></cell>
<cell><p>E subgroup: address in the afternoon session</p>
<p>2022-04-08: Action on HC to merge PR</p></cell>
</row>

</table><p> </p></div></div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>