<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?xml-stylesheet href="/home/lou/Public/TEI/TEICSS/tei.css" type="text/css"
 ?><TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:t="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" n="2022-02"><teiHeader><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Minutes of the TEI Technical Council</title><meeting n="2022-02" when="2022-02-11">TEI Technical Council online
     meeting : <date>11 February 2022</date></meeting></titleStmt><publicationStmt><distributor>TEI Website</distributor><idno>TCM150</idno></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><p>Retagged from a WordPress HTML file</p></sourceDesc></fileDesc><revisionDesc><change when="2023-04-25">Archival header confected</change><change>Extracted from Word Press article with id post-31245</change></revisionDesc></teiHeader><text><body><div><p><hi style="strong">Meeting Times:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>7am PST / 10am EST / 3pm BST / 4pm CEST</item>
<item>Started:     ~15:04Z    Ended:    16:36Z</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Syd Bauman (SB)</item>
<item>Helena Bermúdez Sabel (HBS)</item>
<item>Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EBB)</item>
<item>Hugh Cayless (HC)</item>
<item>Janelle Jenstad (JJ)</item>
<item>Martina Scholger (MS, Chair)</item>
<item>Sabine Seifert (SS)</item>
<item>Peter Stadler (PS)</item>
<item>Raff Viglianti (RV)</item>
</list><p><hi style="strong">Apologies/Not Present:</hi></p><list style="ul">
<item>Elli Bleeker (EB)</item>
<item>Magdalena Turska (MT)</item>
</list><p>Meeting minutes previous month (<ref target="https://tei-c.org/activities/council/meetings/tei-technical-council-teleconference-2022-01-14/">January</ref>)</p><p> </p><div type="h2"><head>Next release</head><list style="ul">
<item>JJ (notetaker), HC, RV release technicians
<list style="ul">
<item>Get SS in the next release? Or have her join in when the times work for her?</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>Refridge on Sunday, April 10.</item>
<item>Freeze on Saturday, April 17. (Create release branch. Do checks.)</item>
<item>Start release on Monday, April 19.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Next Council meeting</head><list style="ul">
<item>March 11, conflict with <ref target="https://www.dhd2022.de/">DHd conference</ref>.</item>
<item>Proposed move to March 18.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Stylesheets meeting times</head><list style="ul">
<item>4th Friday of each month, 8am PST / 11am EST / 5pm CET.</item>
<item>Separate mailing for DST switch next month.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>SVF2F meeting 2022</head><list style="ul">
<item><hi style="b">April 1 and 2</hi></item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Stylesheets task force</head><list style="ul">
<item>EBB, HBS, JJ, and SS have written the charge for the task force.</item>
<item>PS, RV, HC: Concerned that ODD processing really is better positioned in its own repo because it is used by multiple communities (e.g. MEI).</item>
<item>We should see ODD as processing metalanguage distinct from TEI.</item>
<item>RV: Keeping TEI and ODD in the same repo represents a mixing of concerns (data vs. processing logic)</item>
<item>HC: ODD processing isn’t only for the TEI.</item>
<item>The circularity issue is the key problem.</item>
<item>Council can decide where the Stylesheets belong.</item>
<item>PS: Question of where to draw the line between what belongs in TEIC Guidelines processing vs. what processes ANY ODD.</item>
<item>SB: What should the Task Force be doing? Create something flexible for the multiple communities who may use it as well as something specific to the TEI?</item>
<item>HC: Amend charge to be “resolving the circularity problem without inconveniencing other users of ODD”.</item>
<item>Possible rephrase of objective 2: Work on solutions to the circularity problem.  Determine the optimal location for ODD processing and testing that separates the concerns of processing from data representation.</item>
<item>In the charge, replace <hi style="i">“Develop the new Stylesheets to be a functional part of the TEI/TEIC GitHub repository.”</hi> with <hi style="i">“Refactor the Stylesheets to separate the concerns of processing from data representation for the TEI…”</hi></item>
<item>Need to address this point: March 2022: Create fork of the TEI/TEIC GitHub repo and create space for new Stylesheets.</item>
<item><hi style="b">Action on Council:</hi> Bring the Council’s concerns (+ notes on Task Charge from today’s meeting) to the next Stylesheets meeting on February 25.</item>
<item><hi style="b">Action on JJ</hi>: Put Martin Holmes’ slides in the TEI General channel.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Migration of mailing lists</head><list style="ul">
<item>Migrate to something controlled by TEI on the TEI HumaNum server (something we have always wanted to do).</item>
<item>Does anyone know how much LISTSERV costs? (Didn’t we look that up last time?)</item>
<item>Infrastructure group met and discussed the issue of migrating the mailing list from ADHO and Brown to Huma-Num. Laurent Romary will be getting in touch with Huma-Num administrators to find out if we can get help with migrating.</item>
<item>Huma-Num uses Sympa, ADHO = mailman, Brown = LISTSERV.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Presentation of the translation tool (HC)</head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://translate.tei-c.org/user.html">https://translate.tei-c.org/user.html</ref></item>
<item>GitHub: TEIC/spec_translator (Please open issues as we spot things that are out of date/missing or come up with ideas/improvements to suggest.)</item>
<item>Red X with a calendar icon means a translation is out of date.</item>
<item>Red X means that there is untranslated material.</item>
<item>The translation tool uses the GitHub API. Form filling creates a fork on the TEIC/TEI repo, and generates a pull request on completion. (Every save is a commit.)</item>
<item>We can organize people to do a “translate-a-thon”.</item>
<item>Spec pages could provide a button inviting visitors to check or update an out-dated translation.</item>
<item>Eventually add information on the translation tool to the Guidelines Documentation page.</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>TCW32</head><list style="ul">
<item><ref target="https://bauman.zapto.org/~syd/temp/4TEICouncil/tcw32.html">https://bauman.zapto.org/~syd/temp/4TEICouncil/tcw32.html</ref></item>
<item>Publish end of February</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Issues</head><list style="ul">
<item>Disposition of tickets assigned to ex-Council members
<list style="ul">
<item>Should the ticket triage person just re-assign them, or should someone ask assignees if they would like to continue on any or all tickets first?</item>
<item>JL TEI issues: ∅</item>
<item>JL TEI PRs: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2143">#2143</ref>, <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2187">#2187</ref></item>
<item>JL Stylesheets issues: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/382">#382</ref>, <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/447">#447</ref>, <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/479">#479</ref></item>
<item>JL Stylesheets PRs: ∅</item>
<item>MB TEI issues: ∅</item>
<item>MB TEI PRs: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2156">#2156</ref>, <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/pull/2193">#2193</ref></item>
<item>MB Stylesheets issues: <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/401">#401</ref>, <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/issues/495">#495</ref></item>
<item>MB Stylesheets PRs: ∅</item>
</list>
</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Jenkins house cleaning</head><list style="ul">
<item><hi style="b">Action on PS</hi> to send a list of candidates for removal to the tei-council list <hi style="b">by 2022-02-25 </hi>so that folks can say “no, please keep” or “go ahead and nuke”</item>
<item>PS: list is here: <ref target="https://jenkins.tei-c.org/view/various%20branches/">https://jenkins.tei-c.org/view/various%20branches/</ref></item>
<item>EBB: Please nuke <ref target="https://jenkins.tei-c.org/view/various%20branches/job/TEIP5-branch-ebb_SchematronExplan2/">TEIP5-branch-ebb_SchematronExplan2</ref> (PS: done!)</item>
</list></div><div type="h2"><head>Topics for upcoming SVF2F meeting</head><list style="ul">
<item><gi>gender</gi> — reminder to SB: long discussion last time, see <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2189">#2189</ref>.</item>
<item>issue <ref target="https://github.com/TEIC/TEI/issues/2213">2213</ref> on att.datable.custom</item>
<item>CMC revival</item>
</list><p> </p></div></div></body><!-- #post-## --></text></TEI>