<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI.2>
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>TEI Council 2002-06-24 Conference Call Notes</title>
    <author>Syd Bauman</author>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <p>Intended for distribution to TEI Council members for
     corrections; corrected version to TEI Secretary for
     archiving.</p>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc>
    <p>No sourse; this electronic version is the source.</p>
    <p>This document was created from the notes I took (in TEI
     Lite, btw) during the conversation, with some additions
     provided by the notes MP took and sent to me; with a few
     afterthoughts as well, usually relegated to &amp;lt;note>
     elements.</p>
   </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
 </teiHeader>
 <text>
  <front>
   <div type="glossary">
    <p>Names are copied-and-pasted from TEI website, so don't
     blame me for misspellings :-).</p>
    <list>
     <head>Initialis Used for People</head>
     <item><term>SB</term> <gloss>Syd Bauman</gloss></item>
     <item><term>LB</term> <gloss>Lou Burnard</gloss></item>
     <item><term>MD</term> <gloss>Matthew Driscoll</gloss></item>
     <item><term>DD</term> <gloss>David Durand</gloss></item>
     <item><term>TE</term> <gloss>Toma&amp;#382; Erjavec</gloss></item>
     <item><term>DB</term> <gloss>David J. Birnbaum</gloss></item>
     <item><term>FJ</term> <gloss>Fotis Jannidis</gloss></item>
     <item><term>MM</term> <gloss>Martin Mueller</gloss></item>
     <item><term>MP</term> <gloss>Merrilee Proffitt</gloss></item>
     <item><term>SR</term> <gloss>Sebastian Rahtz</gloss></item>
     <item><term>PR</term> <gloss>Peter Robinson</gloss></item>
     <item><term>GR</term> <gloss>Geoffrey Rockwell</gloss></item>
     <item><term>LR</term> <gloss>Laurent Romary</gloss></item>
     <item><term>JU</term> <gloss>John Unsworth</gloss></item>
     <item><term>PW</term> <gloss>C. Perry Willett</gloss></item>
     <item><term>CW</term> <gloss>Christian Wittern</gloss></item>
    </list>
   </div>
  </front>
  <body>
   <div type="prelim">
    <p>Call commenced at ~ 12:01-00 with GR, SB, FJ, PW, MP, LB,
     SR, JU, DB; MD joined a bit later; CW &amp;amp; TE never joined
     (nor did DD nor LR, but that was expected).</p>
    <p>CW &amp;amp; TE, it turns out, were the victims of mistaken
     timezone.</p>
   </div>
   <div n="1" type="agendaItem">
    <head>committee reports</head>
    <div n="1B" type="subAgendaItem">
     <head>Training</head>
     <p>GR explained the training committee had written 1 general
      and 2 specific (for Chicago 2002-10, and for GA 2003) RFPs
      for training courses. Suggested that within a few weeks all
      3 would be edited &amp;amp; posted. SB said the programme
      committee for the Oct member's meeting would like that
      specific RFP out ASAP, preferably shortly after MMs return. GR
      thinks that's reasonable (he will be talking to MM on phone
      circa 06-28).</p>
     <p>Thanks to the training committee for this work.</p>
     <p>Lou recommends that the three RFPs be combined into one;
      general agreement, there should be one RFP, with an
      appendix that gives particulars for upcoming events that
      require specific proposals.
      <action>
       <name>GR</name>
       <resp>Inform training committee of recommendation from
        Council to combine RFPs</resp>
      </action>
      <action>
       <name>training committee</name>
       <resp>Combine RFPs into one general with reference to
        the two specific events, perhaps as an
        appendix.</resp>
      </action><note>In retrospect, I am not yet 100% convinced
       of the wisdom of this, and plan to send the council
       thoughts on the matter if I am still unconvinced after
       discussing w/ GR. -- Syd</note></p>
     <p>GR notes that, esp. for proposals for training at the Oct
      member's meeting, they do not have to be full-blown
      proposals. SB points out that programme committee is
      expecting a 1-day training on Thu 2002-10-10.</p>
     <p>Although questions about an RFP may (or should) be sent to
      the training committee, and questions about the venue, etc.,
      may (or should) be sent to the local organizer, the
      Proposals themselves should be sent to JU, who will forward
      them to the Council for [dis]approval.</p>
     <p>Motion that amended (as discussed) RFPs be accepted; passed.</p>
     <p><action>
       <name>LB</name>
       <name>SR</name>
       <resp>send a response to the general RFP for their 15 Jul
        course</resp>
       <by date="2002-07-01"/></action></p>
    </div>
    <div n="1A" type="subAgendaItem">
     <head>certification</head>
     <p>Software certification discussion: we're leaning towards
      encouraging reviews of software (cull form TEI-L?)
      (certify reviewers? certify reviews?)
      <action>
       <name>MD</name>
       <name>SB to proof if MD wants</name>
       <resp>write a draft certification policy</resp>
      </action>
      <action>
       <name>SR</name>
       <name>LB</name>
       <resp>cull the list for reviews to put on website</resp>
      </action><note>LB &amp;amp; SR &amp;mdash; if you like, let me
       know when you're ready to roll, and I'll send you an
       archive of the list. -- SB</note>
     So we are shifting from certification to reviews.</p>
    </div>
   </div>
   <div n="2" type="agendaItem">
    <head>P5</head>
    <div n="2A" type="subAgendaItem">
     <head>core tags and schema</head>
     <p>Discussion of SR's proposal <bibl><title>notes for
        conference call on 24th</title> <date>2002-06-24
        00:25+01</date></bibl>-- SB thinks timescale
      aggresive, but SR &amp;amp; JU think it's reasonable (better
      to have too aggresive a deadline than none at all).</p>
     <p>SB agrees strongly that TSD become an additional tagset,
      and that P5 be written in (possibly extended) TSD.</p>
     <p>SR suggests Son of Odd report for members meeting
      2002-10; SB suggests [dis]approval by Council in 2003-01;
      SR recommends including discussions of manuscript, char
      sets, standoff to that 2003-01 council meeting; MP reports
      manuscript should be ready.</p>
     <p>Within the discussion there was concensus that it's
      important to change from DTD notation to some other
      notation inside &amp;lt;elemDecl>s (whether a pre-existing
      schema or our own is still an open question), and to allow
      multiple schema output from odds (i.e., to give TEI users
      choice in which schema language they use to validate their
      TEI documents).</p>
     <p>Motion to accept SR's timetable as a framework approved.</p>
     <p><action>
       <name>SR</name>
       <resp>talk to PR or SB about getting a timeslot to
        report on Son of Odd at 2002-10 member's meeting in
        Chicago, perhaps as part of editor's report.</resp>
      </action> SB reports that he thinks the preliminary plan
      already has 20 mins for editors and a separate 20 mins for
      SR.</p>
    </div>
    <div n="2B" type="subAgendaItem">
     <head>character encoding WG update</head>
     <p>LB reports on char sets WG progress -- lots of discussion
      via e-mail, mostly centered on how much of the world's
      problems Unicode solves. Face-to-face WG meeting planned
      for 2002-07-23/24 in T&amp;uuml;bingen (in conjunction with
      ALLC/ACH 2002). Both SB &amp;amp; plan to be present. WG is
      working on detailed proposals for a replacement to WSD
      mechanism which LB (&amp;amp; SB) expect will be discussed at
      WG meeting in T&amp;uuml;bingen. CW doing good job keeping it
      going w/o domination by a particular person or
      constituency.</p>
     <p>Council agreed that requirement for 1.5 days of meeting
      in order to obtain TEI reimbursement be waved, if needed,
      for this WG meeting. It was suggested that council need
      not vote, that chair could just do this
      unilaterally.<action>
       <name>JU</name>
       <resp>Notify CW of relaxed restriction of 1.5 days for
        character sets WG meeting in T&amp;uuml;bingen
        2002-07.</resp>
      </action><note>Since the council had agreed, I didn't take
       up valuable phone time saying this, but I think it is
       important that no single individual have the power to
       unilaterally make exceptions to or grant exemptions from
       promulgated rules or procedures like those in ED W 54. I
       think that such decisions need to be reserved for the
       council or board, or for a pre-defined group of officers
       (chair and both editors; chair, executive director, one
       editor; chair, executive director, one host representive
       &amp;mdash; idunno)</note>
     </p>
    </div>
    <div n="2C" type="subAgendaItem">
     <head>stand-off markup, xlink, xpointer WG</head>
     <p>SB reported on WG progress by briefly reading some
      sections of DD's mail to group
      <bibl><date>2002-06-19T16:31-04,</date>
       <title>startup</title></bibl>:        
      <quote>&amp;hellip; it's past time for us to start up.
       &amp;hellip; trying to get John Garofolo of NIST to join the
       group; if he does not, I will entertain suggestions of
       corpus linguists who might join the group. &amp;hellip; an
       email list, supplemented by a regular conference call
       &amp;hellip; initial suggestion that the call be on
       alternate Wednesdays, starting on 2002-06-26, at
       13:00-00. &amp;hellip; attached the preliminary
       <soCalled>charge</soCalled> &amp;hellip; Preliminary agenda:
       <list>
        <item>introductions</item>
        <item>proceedures: &amp;hellip;</item>
        <item>time limit: &amp;hellip;</item>
        <item>reactions to charge: &amp;hellip;</item>
       </list>
      </quote>
     </p>
     <p>Council wanted assurance that an editor would be
      available for each call; SB &amp;amp; LB do not think this
      will be a problem.</p>
     <p>Someone voiced concern as to whether or not council
      should be worried about lack of progress &amp;mdash;
      [preliminary or draft? -- SB] report is due [2002-08-01 or
      2002-10-11? -- SB]. SB said no need to worry yet, but
      should recheck after [2 or 3] of the planned conference
      calls (and then become concerned if little or no
      progress).
      <action>
       <name>SB or LB (whichever one makes conference call)</name>
       <resp>keep council posted on WG progress</resp>
      </action>
     </p>
    </div>
    <div n="2D" type="subAgendaItem">
     <head>medieval MSS description</head>
     <p>While MP may not be at member's meeting (snif! What's
      wrong with a TEI meeting as a honeymoon? Well,
      congratulations in any case), she is still hopeful that
      she and MD can get together this summer to hammer out
      differences in manuscript description stuff.</p>
    </div>
    <div n="3" type="agendaItem">
     <head>next meeting, assignments, future business</head>
     <p>Future meetings: We like conference calls; SB suggests
      one roughly every 3 months.
      <action>
       <name>JU</name>
       <resp>schedule future council conference calls</resp>
      </action> Perry is willing to continue hosting them. (And
      subsequently agreed to post notices in UTC, preferably in
      an unambiguous format).</p>
     <p>SR points out we need to have firm deadlines before
      2003-01 face-to-face, as it's expensive.</p>
    </div>
   </div>
  </body>
 </text>
</TEI.2>
