<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI.2>
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>TCM03: TEI Council Conference Call 26 Nov 02</title>
    <author>Lou Burnard</author>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <p>For distribution to TEI Council members for
     corrections; corrected version to TEI website.</p>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc>
    <p>Made by editing JMU's email of 25 Nov, together with notes
    taken by LB</p>
   </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
<revisionDesc>
<list>
<item><date>27 Nov 02</date> LB: first draft</item>
   </list></revisionDesc> </teiHeader>
<text>
<front>
   <titlePage>
    <docTitle>
     <titlePart>TEI Technical Council: conference call 26 Nov 2002</titlePart>
    </docTitle>
    <docAuthor>Lou Burnard</docAuthor>
</titlePage>
</front>
<body>

<p>After some initial technical problems caused by LB ill-advisedly
     trying to use a headset instead of a telephone, the call
     commenced 1305 GMT, 26 Nov. </p>
<p>The following were present: Syd Bauman (SB), Alex Bia (AB), David
     Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD), David 
Durand (DD), Tomaz Erjavec (TE), Merrilee Proffitt (MP),  Sebastian
     Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (LR), Chris Ruotolo (CR),
Susan Schreibman (SS), John Unsworth (JU), Perry Willett (PW),
     Christian Wittern (CW).
    </p>
<list type="ordered">
<item>Minutes of the last conference call at <xptr
       url="http://www.tei-c.org/Council/tcm01.xml"/> are in need of
       revision; <note type="action"><label>SB</label> <date>30 Nov
       02</date>  to revise tcm02.</note> LB agreed to take notes
       for this one, and to update the <xref url="http://www.tei-c.org/Consortium/TEI-TEI-C.html#TEI-council.
">list of TEI Council members</xref> on the website.</item>

<item>CR gave an update on activities of the SGML-XML Migration Working 
Group <note place="foot">See materials at <xptr url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/MI/"/></note>. Drafts for
      the tech reports were due in two weeks; full meeting of the two
      groups will be 7/8 Feb 03 at MITH. A third meeting would be held
      to coincide with the Council's ftf meeting in May. SR asked
      at what stage the technical writer would be needed; CR said
      their involvement as early as the February meeting would be
      useful, and wouild be essential from March onwards. LB said that
      Oxford were still hoping to recruit a replacement for Stuart
      Brown within that timescale. JU said that a suitable candidate
      was also available at UVA. <note
       type="action"><label>LB/JU</label> <date>31 Dec
	02</date>  to resolve technical editor position</note>
     </item>
<item>CW gave an update on activities of the Character Encoding
      Workgroup, and posed some specific questions<note place="foot">
<eg> 
"In the reports of the workgroups at MM2 in Chicago, and also in the
discussions of the migration WG immediately after that, it became
clear (at least to me) that there are some architectural decisions
that have to be made on the road to P5.  It would make the work of
these WG's much easier if some of these decisions could be made in a
timely way. What I have in mind here are the following issues, but
this is just from my own perspective, whereas the problem area is
clearly much larger:

- Can we expect entities to be available in P5?
   Background:  The various XML schema languages have to my knowledge
   decided to abandon entities.  What to we do?  (My concern is here
   more with the TEI 'user space', as opposed to the use of entities
   internal to DTD processing, which probably would not be affected.)
   One of the many areas affected would be "Section 6.2 Treatment of
   Punctuation", which will need some revision anyway.

- Should/could  P5 limit the content of attribute values to tokens
   (and similar material) as opposed to the many attribute values in
   P4, which allow essentially the same content as in PCDATA.
   Background:  Attribute values are different from PCDATA in that they
   can not contain other markup constructs.  This makes it impossible,
   for example, to specify language, writing system, readings and the
   like for the content of attribute values.  Additionally, there is some area of
   conflict between XML:lang and language specification in  TEI, which
   could be cleared up as well.
   To make this possible, things like
   &lt;corr sic="foo">bar&lt;/corr> would have to be expressed as
   &lt;seg>
      &lt;corr>bar&lt;/corr>
      &lt;sic>foo&lt;/sic>
   &lt;/seg>
   Since this would require a considerable change to the architecture
   of TEI and the view of its underlying text (which could not be
   considered to be 'simply a concatenation of all #PCDATA in a
   document', I would appreciate a statement from the council on this."
       </eg></note>
In answer to the question <q>Can we expect entities to be available in
   P5?</q>, Council noted that P5 would not define entity sets, but
   that  character entities could be declared as a component of any
   TEI XML document type declaration. In answer to the question <q>Should/could  P5 limit the content of attribute values</q> Council
   requested clarification from the Workgroup as to what was
   intended. It was suggested that a document recommending best
   practice with respect to attribute usage would be helpful. DD
   reported that there was a possibility that the use of SDATA entities
   within XML might be included in a forthcoming revision of the
   standard, and that the TEI should be encouraged to join others
   in expressing this requirement to W3C.
<note type="action"><label> CW and workgroup </label><date>31 Jan</date>to draft document on
   attribute usage</note>        </item>
<item>DD gave an update on the workplan of the Stand-Off Markup
   Working Group, a revised version of which had been  circulated the
   day before. Key points included recommendations to replace the use
   of ID/IDREF attributes by xlink/xpointer mechanisms; extended
   documentation of the usage of different media formats and Xpointer;
   recommended good practice for corpus applications and referencing
   mechanisms; a single
   mechanism for implementation of standoff markup. Drafts were due by
   15 Jan 03. In discussion, the Council noted that there was a need
   to review the overall content of P5, for example, to decide on
   whether or not the current chapter on networks and trees should be
   retained; and there was also a need for best practice guidelines on
   the use of  non-TEI namespaces. These would be considered by the
   Council, by email. <note type="action"><label>All</label> <date>before next
   meeting</date> to articulate namespace policy  and review P5
   contents.</note> It was noted that the ODD mechanism could be
   modified to make the choice of linking mechanism (id/idref or
   xpointer) a user option. It was also noted that the Xpointer
   framework itself was now a stable W3C standard, though details of
   its implementations remained controversial.
     </item>

<item>PW reported on the proposed TEI in Libraries Working 
Group, which had been set up in the wake of JPW's presentation to the
      Chicago Members Meeting. <note place="foot">
<eg>
TEI in Libraries Working Group

Objectives:

To create a suite of TEI-approved materials and tools to support
the use of TEI in a digital library setting, including:

1. A set of guidelines for the use of TEI in libraries, building on
    the existing document "TEI Text Encoding in Libraries Guidelines"
    from 1999, and enhancing it by considering library-specific encoding
    needs and approaches, by updating it to include P4 and XML dtds, and
    by adding examples and enhanced explanations, recommendations for
    headers, linking page images to text, use by vendors, etc.;
2. A set of specific dtds for various encoding levels;
3. XSL stylesheets;
4. a working system for search and display, using lightweight,
    open source components;
5. a set of training documents, with training workshops for
    librarians.

To do this, the working group will

1. Investigate grant opportunities, particularly with the IMLS
    for drafting the guidelines, and NEH for training and development
    activities. (We'll have to restrict the working group to U.S.
    participants for these grants.)
2. Survey current use of the TEI among digital libraries. We will
    coordinate with the TEI SGML/XML Conversion Working Group on this
    activity.
3. Survey development of metadata standards such as METS, MODS, Dublin
    Core, MARCXML, and others, to give recommendations for their use in
    conjunction with TEI-encoded files.

Administrative
  Chair of the workgroup is Perry Willett (Indiana University)

Deadlines
* By December 6, working group membership is set.
* By January 10, a draft grant proposal for IMLS is finished
     to be reviewed by working group members.
* By January 20, the final draft is readied for submission
     to IMLS

By March 1, decision to pursue grant funding from the NEH
for training component (with a series of short deadlines,
ending July 1 with submission of application).

Work via email and perhaps meet as opportunities arise in
conjunction with conferences."
      </eg></note>
Council was very supportive of the proposal, but questioned use of the
      term <soCalled>workgroup</soCalled>, since the proposal did not involve production
      of technical input to the Guidelines. Agreed to term it a
      <term>task force</term> (the term <term>special interest
      group</term> was also considered but rejected). It was noted
      that an explicit association with the TEI of this kind
      assisted in the project's fundability. Concern was expressed
      that the group should seek, funding permitting, to involve
      participation from outside North America.
</item>

<item>LR reported an initiative to work on the current
      Feature Structure chapters, as a joint TEI/ISO
      workgroup, under
the auspices of ISO TC37/SC4. Members would include Simons and
      Langendoen, Tomas Erjavec, and representatives from a number
      of significant research groups active in NLP in France and
      Germany. Council was supportive of this  proposal, noting that
      it did not require additional funding from TEI. There was some
      inconclusive discussion about the conduct and status of TEI chartered
      workgroups not funded by the TEI; would the group  have to
      follow both ISO and TEI procedures, for example.
      LR was requested to draft a
      charter for the proposed Group for consideration by the
      Council. <note type="action"><label>LR</label> <date>15 Dec 02</date> to draft
      charge for the proposed feature structure workgroup and circulate to Council</note>
     </item>

<item>Editors' proposal for handling nontrivial changes to the Guidelines 
(<xptr url="http://www.tei-c.org/Drafts/edw78.html"/>): this item
      was held over to next meeting
due to lack of time  </item>

<item>TEI Adoption/Endorsement of Project Materials.  
Council discussed  suggestions from Charles Faulhaber
<note place="foot"><q>the DTD for medieval manuscript transcription is now finished and is
available, along with instructions on how to use it at
<xptr url="http://sunsite.berkeley.edu/Scriptorium/transcription.html"/>
We would like to submit it formally for vetting by TEI in the hopes of
having it adopted as an official DTD. We're pretty happy with it. I just
wish that we had a good character set to go along with it.</q></note>
and David Chesnutt<note place="foot">MEP materials: <xref url="http://adh.sc.edu/MepDTDs.html">the MEP dtds</xref>;
<xref url="http://adh.sc.edu/MepGuide.html">the MEP guidelines</xref>;
       <xref url="http://adh.sc.edu/meptsdv1.html">the MEP tag library</xref>;
<q>Although developed specifically for the historical editing community, the
DTDs are currently being used by similar literary projects like the Mark
Twain letters at UCB and the Thomas Carlyle letters at Duke. Needless to
say, I'm very pleased to see the work go beyond our small group of
historical editors.</q></note>
following some discussion on the <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/lists_archive/tei-council/">TEI-Council list</xref> October 
23rd et seq. Council noted that the TEI was not, formally, an archive
      and could not guarantee to maintain materials on its website
      indefinitely. It was also noted that Faulhaber's request was
      apparently for some kind of authentication or endorsement
      of his specific customisation of the DTD, a concept which several
      members of the Council found problematic. It was noted that the
      website already provided a showcase for such TEI applications
      and would be pleased to accept more. 
     </item>
<item>Review of <xref url="http://www.tei-c.org/Drafts/p5.html">workplan and timetable for TEI P5</xref>: held over to next meeting
     </item>

<item>Status of Master/manuscript description work: held over to next
      meeting. </item>
<item> Date and time of next meetings: conference call provisionally
      scheduled for the same time on 21 Jan 2003; Face-to-Face: May 16
      and 17, 2003 (a Friday/Saturday) Rewley House, Oxford. Next Members' Meeting: Friday/Saturday, November 7/8, 2003, Nancy, France.
     </item>
    </list>

  </body>
 </text>
</TEI.2>
