<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 PUBLIC "-//TEI//DTD TEI Lite XML ver. 1//EN"
"../Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd" [
<!ATTLIST xref url CDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST xptr url CDATA #IMPLIED>
]>
<TEI.2>
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>TCM09: TEI Council Conference Call 27 Jan 04</title>
    <author>Lou Burnard</author>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <p>For distribution via TEI website.</p>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc><p>From Lou's manuscript notes, checked against Syd's and
   Julia's</p></sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
<revisionDesc>
<list>
<item><date>28 Jan 04</date> LB: applied typos from el syd</item>
<item><date>27 Jan 04</date> LB: first draft</item>
   </list></revisionDesc> </teiHeader>
<text>
<body>

<p>The following were present: Syd Bauman (SB), Alejandro Bia (AB),
David Birnbaum (DB) in part, Lou Burnard (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD),
David Durand (DD), Tomaz Erjavec (TE), Julia Flanders (JF), Sebastian
Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (LR), Chris Ruotolo (CR; for item 1 only),
Susan Schreibman (SS), Natasha Smith (NS), Edward Vanhoutte (EV),
Perry Willett (PW), Christian Wittern (CW) (and an unnamed rock band).
    </p>

<list type="ordered">
<item n="1">Reporting on the status of the Migration Task Force, CR
said that the deliverables were all but complete. She anticipated two further
weeks work were needed to integrate some text from the Editors and to
complete the Tools page. Scripts and stylesheets from case studies
needed some work. As regards dissemination, two conference proposals
had been submitted so far. Some funding remained, which 
might be used to implement an online conversion service of some
kind. Council members suggested that future maintenance of the project
report might be integrated with information about migration from P4 to
P5.
</item>
<item n="2">Actions from <xref url="tcm08.html">previous
      meeting</xref> were reviewed: 
<list>
<item>AB to promote multilingual markup SIG: action completed; work
now ongoing in Meta workgroup</item>
<item>SR (et al) to consult membership on P5 changes: partially
completed. </item>
<item>LB to update web page indexes with date of last component change;
technically complex; action abandoned.</item>
<item>SB to find out about council membership terms: he had discovered
the by laws were ambiguous on this, and proposed an amendment to the Board</item>
</list>
</item>
<item n="3">SR presented a <xref url="mew09.html">a report from Meta
workgroup</xref> which summarized the current state of P5 work and
asked for Council's endorsement of the direction taken in
defining the new ODD format. He
also drew attention to <xref url="mew07.html">a list of specific
proposals</xref>  which the group wished to refer to Council for
decision. Council noted that documentation of how the new ODD format
should be deployed was still needed: LB is working on this; the
current P5TD chapter simply describe the tags used. Some council
members had already tried Roma and wished to provide feedback: it was agreed that
this should be rolled out for user testing and feedback as soon as
possible.<note type="action"><label>SR</label><date>asap</date> to set up mailing list for discussion
of Roma development</note>. Turning to MEW07, Council reviewed its
proposals as follows
<list type="ordered">
<item>Naming convenion: agreed</item>
<item>Support for user mods in languages other than RNG : Council
recognised that this might be technically difficult, and also that it
was unclear to what extent there would be any demand for it. It was
suggested that the matter needed further investigation by Meta
workgroup, and agreed that better documentation for writers of user mods
would help: this might come via the proposed mailing list.</item>
<item>Review of attribute values to use W3C datatypoes: agreed</item>
<item>Replacement of text-valued attributes by <gi>choice</gi> element
or equivalent: discussed at some length. Concern was expressed about
retaining support for existing, comparatively simple, mechanisms where
possible. LB agreed to review the options again.</item>
<item>Use macros or classes to express content models: agreed</item>
<item>Make element names unique: agreed</item>
<item>Drop concept of auxiliary DTD: agreed. Noted that discussion of
namespace was not really relevant here.</item>
<item>Need to verify equivalence of P4 and P5 outputs: agreed</item>
<item>Move to using P5 Odds as maintenance source as soon as possible:
agreed</item>
</list>
Finally, returning to MEW08, Council agreed :-
<list><item>that the proposed namespace should be
adopted</item>
<item>that conformant documents should specify the version of the TEI
to which they conform by means of an attribute named
<ident>version</ident></item>
<item>that its value should follow the pattern
<hi>major.minor.micro</hi>, with numeric values. 
</item>
<item>that guidelines on version numbering  should be agreed by the
editors and documented asap</item>
</list>
</item>
<item>CW presented an update from the Character set workgroup: there
had been little activity since the <xref
url="../Activities/CE/cem02.html">Nancy meeting</xref> until
recently. A working paper in ODD NG had been circulated very recently,
and was yet to be discussed by the group. A revision of the proposed
new draft for chapter 4 was also still in progress. At the Nancy
meeting, it had been decided to recommend use of <ident>xml:lang</ident> as a
replacement for the global <ident>lang</ident>. Noting  that
this decision might be controversial, and might also have forward
compatibility issues, Council recommended that a clear rationale for
the decision be presented as soon as possible.  CW said that it was
hoped to have final versions for discussion at the next council
meeting in March</item>

<item>DD gave an update on the Standoff Markup workgroup. Progress on
recommendations for Xpointer had been stalled by the decision of
W3C not to expand its syntax further to include several necessary
features. The workgroup was hoping to develop recommendations in this
area in the context of another ISO TC37/SC4 activity, but this was
only just starting to get underway. Concern was expressed that P5
should not be delayed as a consequence. Council recommended that the
workgroup should finalize its recommendations as far as possible
within the context of the existing W3C xpointer() facilities, possibly with some
clearly distinguished suggested enhancements that might form the basis
of future work in the ISO context. DD was requested to produce a
report on current status asap. <note
type="action"><label>DD</label><date>1 March</date>circulate status report
to Council by email</note></item>
<item>LR reported on the joint ISO/TEI activity on feature structures,
which would be meeting next week to finalize their current draft. The
whole document needed to be converted to ODD NG format; and it was
also necessary to ensure that the document still conformed to ISO
norms. Half of the document was derived more or less verbatim from
the existing ODDs, and it seemed likely therefore that this would be
ready for consideration as part of P5. The other half was
tutorial matter which would not be appropriate for P5 in any case.</item>
<item>Council discussed  John Smith's proposal  to form a workgroup on problems of word division in Sanskrit. CW felt that the
problem area did not relate solely to Sanskrit, and was not really about
character encoding but rather about linguistic analysis. SR noted that
the output from the proposal would not be a new module, but at most
one or two new elements, or recommendations about how to use existing
ones, such as a SIG might produce. On balance, Council felt that the most
appropriate course would be to set the group up as a task force
reporting to Council. <note type="action"><label>CW</label><date>1 Mar</date> to liaise further with
John Smith on proposed task force</note>
</item>
<item>Noting that there were a number of related issues to do with the
public perception and marketing of the TEI, it was proposed that some
form of marketing committee be set up, drawn from members of the Board and
Council. <note type="action"><label>CW</label><date>?</date> to draft terms of reference and structure for
marketing group to Board</note></item>
<item>Discussion of how the budget should be allocated was deferred
due to lack of time. CW requested that bids for funding from existing or
proposed workgroups  should reach him by the end of February. <note
type="action"><label>All</label><date>1 Mar 04</date> submit proposals for funding
from Council budget to CW</note>
</item>
<item>It was agreed to aim for another conference call towards the end
of March; suggested dates were 23rd and 30th.
<note type="action"><label>CW</label><date>15 Feb</date> to confirm date
of next council call</note></item>
   </list>
    </body>
  </text>
</TEI.2>

