<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="teixlite.css"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 PUBLIC "-//TEI//DTD TEI Lite XML ver. 1//EN"
"../Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd" [
<!ATTLIST xref url CDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST xptr url CDATA #IMPLIED>
]>
<TEI.2>
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>TCM07: TEI Council Meeting, Oxford, 15-16 May 2003</title>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <p>For distribution to TEI Council members for
     corrections; corrected version to TEI website.</p>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc>
    <p></p>
   </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
<revisionDesc>
<list>
<item><date>21 May 03</date> LB: corrections from JMU</item>
<item><date>18 May 03</date> LB: tagged properly</item>
<item><date>15 May 03</date> LB: took notes</item>
   </list></revisionDesc> </teiHeader>
<text>
<front>
<titlePage><docTitle><titlePart>Minutes of the TEI Council Meeting</titlePart>
     <titlePart>Held at Rewley House, Oxford, 15 and 16 May 2003</titlePart>
    </docTitle>
<docDate>18 May 2003</docDate>
   </titlePage>

  </front>

<body>

<p>Present: Syd Bauman (SB), Alexandro Bia (AB),     David
     Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD), David 
Durand (DD),  Toma&zcaron; Erjavec (TE), Merrillee Proffitt (MP) [Friday
     only], Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Susan Schreibman
     (SS), John Unsworth (JU), Perry Willett (PW),   Christian Wittern
     (CW). Apologies had been received from Laurent Romary (LR).
    </p>
<list type="ordered">
<item>The previously circulated <xref url="tca01.html">agenda</xref>
     was reviewed and the order modified; these minutes follow that
     revised order. </item>

<item >Actions from the <xref url="tcm06.html">previous
      meeting</xref> were reviewed;  all have been completed, except
      those on CW, and on PW. The former to be addressed on today's
      agenda; the latter to be carried forward.
<note type="action"><label>PW</label><date>6 Sept</date> to set up
      discussion list on the IMLS grant proposal, to include  all Council
          members not explicitly opted out</note></item>

<item ><p>CW presented documents <xref
      url="../Activities/CE/cew01.html">CEW01</xref> and <xref
      url="../Activities/CE/cew06.html">CEW06</xref> for review by the
      Council, noting that an additional working paper on language
      identification was yet to be folded in to CEW01, and that the
      version of CEW06 was only a preliminary draft. Council discussed
      these papers at some length. </p>

<p>It was agreed that CEW01 was close to completion: the WG
      was asked to consider adding more discussion of beginners'
      problems; it was felt that some illustrations would make it more
      accessible (examples were offered from the <xref
      url="http://www.menota.org">Menota project</xref>); some
      explicit discussion of typographic issues and in particular of
      scripts might also be useful. Maybe a section on output (as
      distinct from input and storage) of characters would provide
      an appropriate locus for these issues. Some explanation of
      <q>character properties</q> might also be helpful. Section 4.5 (on XML
      issues) might perhaps be better located in Chapter 2 of the
      Guidelines: this was a matter for the editors to resolve. 
     </p>
<p>Turning to CEW06, a free-standing replacement for chapter 25 on the
      WSD, Council noted that this paper was less complete but
      endorsed its approach. CW said that it was intended to add
      discussion of how encoded documents using the proposed scheme
      would be migrated once non-Unicode characters had been
      standardized; and to review and expand ways of handling
      positional variant glyphs, and mapping rules for glyph
      rendering. There was some discussion of glyphs used to represent
      abbreviation; the scheme as proposed seemed adequate to the
      needs of medieval ms encoders in this regard. It was agreed that
      the proposed character description element might be placed in the
      Header, or as an external document linked to by a URI. It was
      noted that the reliance of this proposal on the availability  of
      the <gi>c</gi> element suggested that the latter should be in
      the core tagset rather than in the segmentation tagset. The
      names and documentation used for the specific elements proposed needed to be
      brought in line with common TEI practice, notably to include
      more examples <note
       type="action"><label>Editors</label><date>asap</date> to provide sample tagdocs for charDesc
       elements to workgroup</note>
Combining characters such as ligatures should not be represented as
      nested <gi>c</gi> elements: the content of a <gi>c</gi> might be
      multiple codepoints. Council also requested more discussion of
      mapping issues in the document. 
<!-- eg><![CDATA[
<char>
<charName>17th c. u</charName>
<mapping type="modern">u</mapping>
<mapping type="modern">v</mapping>
</char>

]]></eg-->
</p>
<p>Council next discussed the CDATA attribute issue, and reviewed
      document EDW79. It was agreed that there was no viable
      alternative to the CE workgroup's proposal of
      converting attributes with textual  content (which might therefore
      include <gi>c</gi> elements) to daughter elements: it was less
      clear whether such conversion should be mandatory or
      alternative. Reviewing the following examples:

<eg><![CDATA[
(a) <ed><sic>buck</sic><corr>duck</corr></ed>
(b) <sic><corr>duck</corr>buck</sic>

(c) <sic corr="duck">buck</sic>
(d) <corr sic="buck">buck</corr>
]]></eg>

Council expressed a strong preference for (a) above (b) as an
       alternative method of encoding (c) or its analog (d), but
       recognised that there might not always be an appropriate outer
       "wrapper" element. Council  decided that such methods must be
       made available in P5, but did not decide whether or not the
       P4-style usage should continue to be available as an
       alternative, pending further examples. 
<note type="action"><label>Editors</label><date>July 2003</date> to revise and expand EDW79 to propose
       appropriate wrapper elements and to add more datatype
       information.  </note>
     </p>

<p>Council thanked CW and the group for their work, and agreed that
      the group should continue for a further year. Council also
      agreed to recommend to the Board that funding should be made
      available for a further face to face meeting of the workgroup.
     </p>

    </item>

<item>

<p>In the absence of LR, LB reported on the proposed timetable for the
     joint ISO/TEI Activity on feature structures. Council asked
     whether, if this work was successful, ISO would take on the task
     of maintenance. If so, it might be appropriate for future
     editions of the Guidelines to cite the ISO document rather than
     duplicate its content. It was suggested that the TEI should
     recommend to ISO that the document should be freely
     distributable. </p>

     <p>Council was concerned that any changes necessary in the
substance of the current proposals should be identified before
production of the ISO document began: doubts were expressed as to the
      feasibility of keeping to the proposed timetable. <note type="action"><label>TE,
	LR, Editors</label><date>6 Sept</date>
to review chapters FS and FD and propose any needed changes to Council
</note>
     </p>

<p>LB asked whether there was any need to retain the current TEI
     chapter on terminology. <note
     type="action"><label>Editors</label><date>6 Sept</date> to attempt to
     discover whether the terminology chapter is being used</note>
     </p>
    </item>


<item>AB gave a  progress report from the <xref
      url="../Activities/MI/">Migration Work Group</xref> reviewing
      the working papers so far available for its next meeting,
      scheduled for mid June. Council members briefly discussed the
      problems posed by recommending a migration procedure  dependent
      on a single piece of software  (osx) which was  not
      consistently available across platforms and suggested that the
      documentation should be expanded to include exactly what was involved in
      making osx work, and should also consider other solutions in
      more detail. 
Council noted that the various parts of MIW03
      were yet to be integrated into a single document. 
<note type="action"><label>LB</label><date>6 Sept</date> to add osx binaries to website and investigate 
      provision of an online conversion service</note>
</item>

<item>SS gave a brief report from the Nomination Committee. The
     following have so far agreed to stand for election to the Council
     (6 vacancies): Mavis Cournane, Matthew Driscoll, Toma&zcaron; Erjavec,
     Steve Ramsay, Laurent Romary, Chris Ruotolo, Natasha Smith,
     Edward Vanhoutte, John Walsh, Perry Willet, Christian
     Wittern. The following have so far agreed to stand for election
     to the Board (2 vacancies): Patrick Durusau, David Gants, Kurt
     Gartner, Harold Short, John Unsworth.  Michael Beddow and Marilyn
     Deegan were to be approached, for Council and Board
     respectively. It was noted that there was still a requiremnent
     for a defined nomination protocol. Nominations close on 1st June;
     any further suggestions to SS.
</item>
<item>
AB presented his work on multilingual markup, also recently presented
     at XML Europe. In discussion, Council agreed that it would be
     desirable for TEI to provide 
     canonical translations for TEI element names,
     attribute names, and default values into as many languages as
     possible, whether by means of a distinct mapping document (as AB
     had done) or by additional information in the ODDs. Such mappings
     would be best developed by  user communities rather than
     centrally by the TEI, which might lead to consistency and conformance
     problems. (Council noted in passing  that the chapter on
     conformance was also in need of revision, but did not assign any
     action). It was agreed to form a  taskforce to look into ways of
     defining and maintaining  a TEI term bank, with initial
     membership of CW, AB, SR.
<note type="action"><label>CW, AB, SR</label><date>6 Sept</date>to provide technical
     recommendations on definition and maintenance of TEI term
     bank</note>
    </item>

<item><p>SR reported on work of the Meta workgroup. Initial priorities
     had been to define the ODD format in a way consistent with the
     rest of the Guidelines, and to remove any residual SGML
     dependencies. More specifically, it was proposed to change the
     way content models were presented in tagdocs, and to define
     datatypes for attribute values more abstractly, mapping them to
     W3C schema datatypes where possible.  The work was well in hand,
     though there were some current problems in
     generating DTD fragments from relaxng.</p>
<p>In the P4 ODDs, element content models were expressed by embedded DTD
     language, and attribute list specifications by specific ODD
     elements. The WG was now proposing to replace the former by 
     RelaxNG; it might also be appropriate to do the same for the
     latter.  The decision to use RelaxNG for this purpose (rather
     than W3C Schema) did not preclude generation of W3C
     schemas. Council debated at some length which schema language
     should be used, and the extent to which it should be exposed to
     users of the Guidelines, before voting on the following
     propositions:
<list>
<item>The maintenance form for the definition of the TEI schema should
     be RelaxNG</item>
<item>In the printed form of the Guidelines, formal definitions for
     elements should be given using the RelaxNG
     <soCalled>compact</soCalled> syntax</item>
<item>In digital versions of the Guidelines, formal definitions should
     be available in one or more of the available schema languages (DTD,
     W3C schema, RelaxNG) as a user-configurable option</item>
<item>It should be possible for users to define extensions in any of
     the three schema languages</item>
      </list>
     </p>
<p>Each of the above motions was carried unanimously. Council
      recommended, however, that further comment on these fundamental
      changes in P5 should be sought from the wider TEI
      community. <note type="action"><label>JU;
      Eds</label><date>asap</date>to report schema language proposals
      to TEI-L and invite comment</note></p>
<!--
eds: to write to tei-l and invite comment
p5 is coming, leaving sgml behind, but not dtds; maintaining p4. 
  action on chair to produce 

also ask about datatypes. 
-->
<p>The WG had also identified a problem in the use of
      namespaces. Definition of a TEI namespace while superficially
      attractive would have the undesirable effect of causing all
      existing TEI software to fail, since namespaces cannot be
      defaulted by e.g. XSLT processors. It was also unclear whether
      there should be a single TEI name space, or multiple
      ones. Council felt that both questions should be further
      investigated before any recommendation could be made.
<note type="action"><label>Meta WG</label><date>6 Sept</date>To produce a
       working paper on the namespace problem</note>
     </p>    </item>
    <item>At SR's request, Council discussed the current licensing
     conditions specified in the Guidelines and associated DTD
     files. It was agreed that the present situation was not
     satisfactory, chiefly because it gave users of the scheme no
     rights to modify or even to use the DTD. Council agreed to
     recommend to the Board that the Guidelines should be released
     under the GNU Free Documentation Licence, and that the derived
     DTDs or schemas should include an MIT-style statement of acceptable use similar to that used by
     the Docbook DTD:
<!--
 and an invariable text provision
     Licensing: what are objectives? can create derivative works woth
     attribution. but can't change meaning. This is a question for the
     board? 

DD: they shd have permission to have do anything they want? modified
     works must have modified names? attribution? these are all
     aemrican licences? you cant alienate your moral right under
     european law. 


we shd give obvious permissions; modificns to dtd are Ok; 
distribn of documentation.

giving it away is our plan.

but cf html.
recommendn to board: use gnu free licence; invariable text provision
     shd protect conformance chapter.

what about derived works?

Copy stmt from docbook. (Statement of acceptable use)
-->
<eg><![CDATA[
     Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute the DocBook XML DTD
     and its accompanying documentation for any purpose and without fee
     is hereby granted in perpetuity, provided that the above copyright
     notice and this paragraph appear in all copies.  The copyright
     holders make no representation about the suitability of the DTD for
     any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without expressed or implied
     warranty.

     If you modify the DocBook DTD in any way, except for declaring and
     referencing additional sets of general entities and declaring
     additional notations, label your DTD as a variant of DocBook.  See
     the maintenance documentation for more information.

     Please direct all questions, bug reports, or suggestions for 
     changes to the docbook@lists.oasis-open.org mailing list. For more
     information, see http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/.

]]></eg>

Such a licence would enable TEI materials to be built into Linux
     distributions and other Open Source products, which Council felt
     highly desirable. 
The Board was requested to review this issue at its conference call in
     June, and also to pursue the feasibility of getting sample TEI
     dtds and other materials built into commercial XML products. </item>
<!--
It was noted that this applied to the compiled form of the source
     ODDs, rather than the tRecommendation : 

Does this apply to the source odds: no, to their compiled form. 

GDL is parent copyright stmt, with statemtnt of acceptable use on the
     dtd.

unanimously accepted: recommend to Board. Board to review at conf call
     in June.

validation  and badging ouht to be considered. board shd pursue
     getting tei embedded in different tools e.g. xmetal, oxygen;
     validation procedures. -->


<item>
JU reported that there had been no further report from Patrick Durusau
     about his proposed work on revising the Tress and Graphs chapter.
    </item>

<item>
JU requested Council members to send him any  recommendations concerning the next
     Chair of the Council by mid June. The new Chair would be
     appointed by the Board at its next meeting.
<note type="action"><label>All</label><date>15 June</date> to make
     proposals for new Council chair to JU</note>
    </item>
<item>
JU noted that membership in the Consortium was still not increasing as
     rapidly as necessary. 
    </item>
<item>
JU reminded Council members that the 2003 Members Meeting would be
     held in Nancy, France, 6-7 Nov. The programme committee for the
     meeting, as agreed at the November Board meeting, comprised
     Peter Robinson, Laurent Romary, and Syd Bauman.
    </item>

<item><p>
MD reviewed the origins of the two sets of proposals for manuscript
     description under review by the MS Description Taskforce. 
     A major difference between the
     two sets of recommendations was that Master had been conceived of
     primarily for cataloguing <foreign>de novo</foreign>, whereas the TEI-MMSS had seen
     its role as being to facilitate retrospective conversion of
     existing print catalogues. MP noted that there was no
     pre-existing data-content standard for the area which Master
     addressed; MD that the intended user-community for Master
     including manuscript scholars at least as much as manuscript
     librarians; DB noted that the recommendations agreed
     substantially, with only small differences in naming and
     functionality.  </p>
     <p>Council agreed that the merged recommendations must
     support ways of encoding pre-existing descriptions as effectively
     as possible. After further discussion, focussed on ways of supporting both a
     structured normative view and an unstructured low-cost
     transitional view, Council suggested that the best way of
     reconciling the two sets of recommendations would be to define
     alternative elements, one for structured and one for
     unstructured elements, using identical low-level access
     points. This would be analogous to the existing <gi>biblStruct</gi> and
     <gi>bibl</gi>, or <gi>entry</gi> and <gi>entryFree</gi> elements.
     </p>
<!--
original task of Master; eu funded project 1999-2001. goal to identify
     set of extns to tei for ms descripns; for use in hdr, or
     body. descripn rather than cataloguing necessary. input from ms
     scholars and librarians. exploring what people did, and how
     similar traditions were. 90% identical, minor diffs, moistly to
     do with order: germanic/romance tradns differ. other group
     participated in all our meetings. goal to produce single set of
     rfecommendns. 13 wkshops, several hundred ms pewople from diff
     backgrounds. users continue. a few small things top be
     added. 

Merille: the one key diff was that master was [practical handson;
     oriented towards new cataloguing; not working from extant
     catalogues. our group had to be able to accomodate existing
     catalogues. vatican et al motivated to do retrospective
     conversion at low barrier cost. we compiled print exemplars, 500
     copyright violations froim diff traditions. low-barrier way to do
     print conversion. unlike other bits of tei, its a way of encoding
     descriptive metadata. 

MJD: if you think of ms descripn as being just metadata, from ms
     catologues perspective, thats fine. but master took input from
     ms scholars too. i wanted to be able to put anyuthing i miht put
     into my printed intropduction text into the header. can produce a
     3 line desc, or a 30 page one. 

JU std has to be descriptive not normative. 

DB:  [argument about data entry]

MJD: problem of loosening structure is that hierarchy disappears

CW: could you have entryFree and entryStruct alternatives as per
     dictionary chapter

DB : how often is a ms record an archaeographic object?

CW: how refer back to unstructured text?

DD: ead took very flexible approach, when i loooked at ead list,
     librarians were always arguing about exchanging data.

shd tei concentrate on needs of retrospective conversion or people
     doing new finding aids?

db: 

-> distinctn between unstructured and restructured view

-> just do as paras?

structured only, both, unstructured?

so we need to support both

distinction between intermediate structuring elements and low level
needs to be agreed
-->
<p>MD agreed to take this suggestion further with the taskforce. He
      noted also that it might be possible to generalize the model
      further to include non-manuscript material; it was agreed to
      postpone this work until  a set of merged recommendations adequate
      to the handling of  manuscripts in general (not simply
      Western medieval and renaissance materials)  was
      available. Council re-iterated its concern that this work should
      be completed without further delay and agreed that a face to
      face meeting of the Taskforce within the next three months
      might help to accomplish this.
<note type="action"><label>MD, MP, DB, Eds</label><date>asap</date>to
       fix date/place for MS ftf meeting</note></p>
<!--
 syd says shdnt be able to choose both structured and unstructured
     ones: do we need two mutually exclusive tagsets. Not practical
     with current pizza models.

mjd: how far can we generalized this to other types of material, not
     even nessa handwritten? 

finish and harmonize first. "ms" and not "medieval ms"

meeting to be held within 3 months; 
-->
    </item>

<item >DD reported that the <xref url="../Activities/SO">Standoff
          workgroup</xref> continued to meet regularly and was making
          slow progress; there were no major
          issues for Council to decide as yet. He briefly commented on
          the scope and status of the various working papers
          now  available on the  web
          site and clarified some questions about their intended
          coverage, for example that SOw04 was not intended to provide
          an exhaustive or authoritative list of recommended media
          formats, but merely to comment on the use of xpointer in
          combination with  some
          commonly used formats. Council suggested that SOw05 on
          corpus applications needed to explicitly comment on the
          existing TEI recommendations for language corpora; and that
          SOw06 on standoff techniques similarly needed to review
          existing TEI proposals for accomplishing the same thing as
          xInclude. It was  noted that (as mentioned above) the use of namespaces
          might be problematic. Council reviewed SOw08 on ways of
          supporting canonical reference schemes and agreed that these
          might be a generally useful alternative to the use of
          xpointer. Some method of supporting multiple schemes was
          necessary. Finally, DD reported that a paper on conversion
          between TEI extended pointer and Xpath was in
          production. Council approved the continued work of the group.

<!--

should we be endorsing one of various external stds (svg, jpg, ...) ?

shd deal with formula as well as figures? specific problems relate to
     pointing and linking into external data, not all problems of
     external data (imgs, sound, video). Selection of which external
     stds to recommend is distinct.

sow05 on corpus applicn; needs to look at existing TEI corpus proposals
     and highlight the differences

sow06: standoff based on xi:include; need also to look at existing
     linking proposals. use of namespace poses problem. are there any
     authoring tools? there are some vertical tools. shdnt be trying
     to pick favourites.

are there not more generic uses for xlink and xpointer? 

proposal to allow xpointer wherever id/idref is allowed already agred

chapter shdnt begin with specific use-case: shd address generic
     cases. 

graphs has been tossed to durusau

lots of time spent on canonical refs

sow08: canonical refs scheme. issues: existence of multiple ref
     schemes; (refdecls); regexp syntax. Usable for aligning parallel
     texts? how would you do without them?
-->

    </item>

<item>
The outgoing Chair reiterated his opinion that the root element for
     TEI documents should be <gi>TEI</gi> rather than <gi>TEI.2</gi>,
     and that the use of <soCalled>camelCase</soCalled> identifiers
     should be reviewed. Council agreed to drop the .2 and to add a
     <ident>version</ident> attribute to the new <gi>TEI</gi>
     element. The editors (and others) expressed strong opposition to
     the idea of dropping camel case identifiers. </item>
<item>Council recommended to the Board that funding should be provided
     for one  face to face meeting for each of CE, MS and Meta and
     rechartered their respective activities for the next year. </item>
<item>Next meeting of the Council would probably be by conference call
     in September; no date was fixed. A face to face meeting might
     also be possible in conjunction with the Members Meeting in November.</item>
<item>A vote of thanks to the outgoing Chair was proposed, seconded
     and  carried unanimously.</item>
   </list>

    </body>
  </text>
</TEI.2>

