<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="teixlite.css"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 PUBLIC "-//TEI//DTD TEI Lite XML ver. 1//EN"
"../Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd" [
<!ATTLIST xref url CDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST xptr url CDATA #IMPLIED>
]>
<TEI.2>
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>TCM08: TEI Council Conference Call 23 Sep 03</title>
    <author>Lou Burnard</author>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <p>For distribution to TEI Council members for
     corrections; corrected version to TEI website.</p>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc><p>From Lou's manuscript notes</p></sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
<revisionDesc>
<list>
<item><date>23 Sep 03</date> LB: first draft</item>

   </list></revisionDesc> </teiHeader>
<text>
<body>

<p>The following were present: Syd Bauman (SB), Alejandro Bia (AB), David
     Birnbaum (DB) in part, Lou Burnard (LB), David 
Durand (DD),  Tomaz Erjavec (TE), 
Susan Schreibman (SS),  Perry Willett (PW),
     Christian Wittern (CW).
    </p>

<p>Apologies for absence: Sebastian Rahtz (SR; in transit); 
Matthew Driscoll (MD; power failure in Scandinavia) and Laurent Romary
(LR; mistake over date).</p>

<list type="ordered">
<item n="1">Actions from <xref url="tcm07.html">previous
      meeting</xref> not covered on today's agenda:
   <list><item>PW reported that he expected to hear the outcome of the
 IMLS  bid shortly; the SIG would in any case proceed, as would the
 meeting timetabled for the end of October in Washington. Some Council
members had not yet been added to the discussion list. </item>
<item>The editors reported that some progress had been made on EDW79
and on sample CE tagdocs, but the actions were incomplete. </item>
<item>SB had drafted the posting about TE usage, but not yet posted
it. </item>
<item>osx binaries had been posted, but there was an outstanding
unresolved problem with the Macintosh version. </item>
<item>AB had not yet started work on the TEI termbank. It was suggested
that this action could be taken forward as a SIG, and discussed more
widely at the next Members' meeting. <note type="action"><date>1
Oct</date><label>AB</label>to draft proposal for a terminology SIG to
meet at Nancy.</note></item>
<item>The action to communicate to the membership  Council's decisions about how
schemas would be used in P5 had not yet been carried out. It was
agreed to request Sebastian to draft a paragraph on the topic for the
editors' use. <note type="action"><date>1 Oct</date><label>SR</label>
to draft summary of May council meeting's decisions about P5 formats and outputs
for wider dissemination.</note></item>

<item>The Manuscript taskforce had met 7-9 Sept in Reykjavik. In MD's
absence, LB, DB, and SB reported that the meeting had been very
constructive, and had identified a clear way forward, which would
enable support of manuscript descriptions held either as simple prose,
or in more structured forms. Draft <xref
url="../Activities/MS/msm01.html">minutes</xref> are available, and a
formal specification of the tagset is in progress.</item>
   </list></item>


<item n="2"><p>In Chris Rutolo's absence, AB and SS reported progress
from the <xref url="../Activities/MI/">Migration Work
Group</xref>. There had been a very productive meeting in
Alicante. Sarah Wells, the group's technical author, was in the
process of copy-editing the many short work papers into a single
coherent report. A first draft of the project's final reports had been
circulated and would shortly appear on the web site. Discussion about
work to be carried out in the remainder of the project was ongoing: it
had been suggested that a survey of TEI activity would be most
useful. </p><p>In this context, but more generally, CW remarked that
it would be very helpful if dates of uploading could be added for all
documents referenced on the website. LB noted that all individual
documents already carried their dates of last revision but that this might be
a useful enhancement for the website. <note
type="action"><label>LB</label><date>ASAP</date>to check feasibility
of updating web index pages
with dates of last update  for individual documents</note></p></item>

<item n="3">In SR's absence, LB reported that the <xref
url="../Activities/META/">Metalanguage work group</xref> was continuing
to work along the lines indicated in its <xref url="../Activities/META/mew01.html">previous report</xref>. It was
planned to hold a face-to-face meeting in Oxford 15-17 October; an
informal meeting with two members who could not make that date would
also be held on the 9th. </item>

<item n="4">CW reported that there had been little activity in the <xref
url="../Activities/CE/">Character Encoding workgroup</xref> since the
last meeting, though there had been some testing of the proposals
discussed at the last meeting, and (a few days ago) some further
comments on CEW06 had been received. It was planned to hold a
face-to-face meeting before the Members Meeting, to plan completion of
the group's work.  </item> 

<item n="5">DD reported that progress in the <xref
url="../Activities/SO/">Standoff workgroup</xref> had been
<q>rotten</q>. He would make a further effort to motivate the group
into finishing the work done so far, which was still close to
completion, and addressed the original charge of the group. The
group's mode of operation, exclusively relying on regular phone
calls, had not proved to be very effective, although it had the merit of
low cost. Council noted the importance of having evidence of some
completed work, however small, in time for the Members Meeting. </item>

<item n="6">In LR's absence, LB reported that the <xref
url="../Activities/FS/">Joint ISO TEI activity on Feature Structures</xref> was continuing
 along the lines indicated in its <xref
url="../Activities/FS/tcw01.html">charge</xref>. A discussion list had
been set up, and a preliminary review of the draft made. The chair of
the activity, Keeyong Lee, would be co-ordinating comments received on
the draft. It was planned to hold a face-to-face meeting in Nancy 4-5
November. Concerns were raised about IP issues in the work, and about
transparency of the consultation process. [These issues have since
been discussed briefly with LR who will take them forward within ISO
TC4/SC8] </item> 

<item n="7">Council noted that at this year's members
meeting, the oral reports from workgroups and council would be
replaced by a TEI Question Time session, in which work group heads and council
members would be expected to field questions from the floor, based on
a previously-submitted written report. It was proposed that this
report should contain brief activity reports from each workgroup
including lists of documents produced, training activities, etc. and
also a timeline. After discussion, it was agreed that WG heads would
be responsible for drafting input for this document, possibly with
help from other group members, and submitting that to the council
chair, who would merge the results to form a single document to be
passed to the editors. A timetable was agreed for this, which would
ensure the document was ready for circulation at least one week before
the meeting. <note type="action"><label>All WG/taskforce
heads</label><date>15 Oct 03</date>send draft reports to CW</note>
<note type="action"><label>CW</label><date>21 Oct 03</date>send draft report to editors</note>
<note type="action"><label>Editors</label><date>24 Oct
03</date>finalize  report and circulate to membership</note>
</item>
<item n="8">LB reported that several proposals for SIGs had been made,
formally or informally, and that it might be necessary to expand the
number of parallel strands for them from two to three. He would check
with LR to see whether this would be possible at ATILF [it is]. So far
proposals had been mooted for SIGs on libraries, on TEI
multilinguality, on training, on editing of modern manuscripts. [Since
the meeting, three further proposals have been suggested: one on medieval manuscript
description and digitization, one on language engineering, and one on
graphic elements]</item>

<item n="9">Discussion of the date of the next meeting revealed some
uncertainty about when council members' terms expired, which SB agreed
to resolve. <note type="action"><label>SB</label><date>1 Oct</date> to
advise council members of agreed principles concerning membership
term.</note> It was agreed that since most council members would be
attending the Members Meeting, the next formal meeting should be timetabled
for some time in January.
<note type="action"><label>CW</label><date>1 Dec</date> to decide date
of next council call</note></item>

   </list>
    </body>
  </text>
</TEI.2>

