<?xml version="1.0"?> 
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="teixlite.css"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "/home/stuartb/P4/TEI/web/P4X/DTD/tei2.dtd"
[
<!ENTITY % TEI.XML "INCLUDE">
<!ENTITY % TEI.prose "INCLUDE">
<!ENTITY % TEI.linking "INCLUDE">
<!ENTITY % TEI.extensions.dtd SYSTEM "TCM.dtd">
<!ENTITY % TEI.extensions.ent SYSTEM "TCM.ent">
<!ENTITY ndash "&#x2013;">
]>
<TEI.2 id="TCM01">
 <teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
   <titleStmt>
    <title>Minutes of the TEI-C Council Meeting, Jan. 12th, 2002</title>
   </titleStmt>
   <publicationStmt>
    <p></p>
   </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc>
    <p>Email from Geoffrey Rockwell, as amended by Lou Burnard</p>
   </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
   <change n="v1">
    <date value="2002-01-22">24 January 2002</date>
    <respStmt>
     <name>Stuart Brown/Lou Burnard</name>
     <resp>edit</resp>
    </respStmt>
    <item>XML version created</item>
   </change>
  </revisionDesc>
 </teiHeader>
 <text>
  <front>
   <titlePage>
    <docTitle>
     <titlePart>TEI-C Council meeting, Jan. 12th, 2002</titlePart>
     <titlePart>Minutes v1.2</titlePart>
    </docTitle>
    <docAuthor>Geoffrey Rockwell</docAuthor>
   </titlePage>
   <div>
    <p>Attending: Christian Wittern (CW), Perry Willett (PW), Geoffrey
     Rockwell (GW), Sebastian Rahtz (SR, board representative),
     Merrilee Proffitt (MP), Syd Bauman (SB, editor), Matthew Driscoll
     (MD), Lou Burnard (LB, editor), John Unsworth (JU, chair), David
     Durand (DD), Laurent Romary (LR)</p>
   </div>
  </front>
  <body>
   <divGen type="actionItems"/>
   <div1 id="I1">
    <head>Initial Discussion</head>
     <div2 id="I1.1">
      <p>It was agreed that Geoffrey Rockwell would take notes.</p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I1.2">
     <p>John Unsworth provided an update on the Consortium. The 2002
     budget (handed out in Pisa) predicted 57 members and 50
     subscribers. We now have 49 members so we are on track. Total
     anticipated income $357K. $16K budgeted for workgroups (separate
     from monies spelled out in NEH grant).</p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I1.3">
     <p>There was a suggestion that the list of institutional members
     be moved to a more prominent spot in the web site as that is what
     impresses administrators when one is making the case that your
     institution should be a member. Lou Burnard said he would look
     into that. <action id="AI1" n="1"><who>LB</who><what>Move list of
     institutional members up near top of web site.</what></action>
     </p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I1.4">
     <p>We reviewed the TEI-C Council Terms of Reference. Our
     priorities are to oversee changes and long range planning.</p>
    </div2>
   </div1>
   <div1 id="I2">
    <head>Review of P4</head>
    <div2 id="I2.1">
     <p>Lou Burnard provided an update</p>
     <p>148 changes from the sublime to the enormous, 6 outstanding
     issues. It is still the intention of the changes to not break any
     existing documents. Lou and Syd will produce a list of
     outstanding problems. <action id="AI2"
     n="2"><who>editors</who><what>Produce list of outstanding
     problems.</what></action> The chapters of Character sets and WSDs
     need considerable revision (see below). The revised ODD system
     can now generate DTDs, data files used by the pizza chef, and
     HTML or PDF versions of the text of the Guidelines. It has not
     yet been enhanced to produce a TEIxlite version of the text but
     this is an option under consideration. LB said that it was
     important that such a version should not be regarded as a
     revisable source of the Guidelines. <action id="AI3"
     n="3"><who>LB or SR</who><what>Possibly revise ODD to be able to
     produce TEIxLite version of P4.</what></action></p>
     <p>We talked about how workgroups submit their work and how that
     integrates with ODD. There is a document (<xref
     url="http://www.tei-c.org/Vault/ED/edw55.tei">EDW55</xref>) that
     describes how draft chapters should be submitted which this group
     can look at, but there is no urgency to reviewing this (unlike
     the urgency to reviewing <xref
     url="http://www.tei-c.org/Vault/ED/edw54.tei">EDW54</xref>
     &ndash; see below.) <action id="AI4" n="4"><who>TEI-C
     Council</who><what>Review EDW55 &ndash; Low priority compared to
     review of EDW54.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I2.2">
     <head>Element Parent Child Issue</head>
     <p>One of the issues that arose in Pisa was whether or not to
     include for each element information about the element's parents
     and children. Various people at Pisa felt this was useful when
     using the paper guidelines. Lou felt this could be misleading
     since the relatives listed are not necessarily available. It was
     agreed that the parents and children should be included in the P4
     in the manner they appear in P3. <action n="5"
     id="AI5"><who>Editors with help from SR</who><what>Add relative
     information to P4.</what></action> We voted on the issue:
      <list type="simple">
       <item>7 votes for P3-like text</item>
       <item>1 vote for dividing the information by tag set</item>
       <item>1 vote for leaving relatives out</item>
      </list>
     </p>
     <p>In the course of our discussion we discussed the possibility
      of providing a custom documentation tool that would produce a
      version of the Guidelines tailored to the project which could
      have the relevant relatives. <action n="6"
      id="AI6"><who>SR?</who><what>Develop online tool for creating
      custom documentation.</what></action> While this is a good idea
      we felt the paper copy still needs P3-like relatives listed.</p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I2.3">
     <head>Call for changes for P3 to P4</head>
     <p>The result of a call for changes to P4 didn't turn up much.
     Julia Flander's questionnaire had a question that may have turned
     up some P4 issues. John U should check with her. <action n="7"
     id="AI7"><who>JU</who><what>Check with Julia about
     questionnaire.</what></action> David Seaman may have some
     suggestions that he will forward to editors.</p>
     <p>The Ibsen suggestions seem more like P5 issues, since the
     intent of P4 was mostly to bring P3 into line with XML. Ibsen
     suggestions should be deferred to a group that will review
     <soCalled>core</soCalled> issues. Editors will respond to Ibsen
     folks. <action id="AI8" n="8"><who>Editors</who><what>Respond to
     Ibsen folks.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I2.4">
     <head>What has to be done to finish P4</head>
     <p>We reviewed what needs doing to finish the P4. There are three
     major tasks:
      <list type="ordered">
       <item>Including the information about parents and
       children back in (see <ref
       target="I2.2">2.2</ref>)</item>
       <item>A bunch of little things</item>
       <item>Revising two chapters &ndash; the XML chapter and
       the Character Set chapter (see below for discussion of
       both.)</item>
      </list>
     </p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I2.5">
     <head>XML Chapter</head>
     <p>The Council was asked for input on chapter 2, esp. 2.11 which
     Lou felt gets dated quickly.  We felt that 2.11 should stay and
     be updated with reference to the W3C, stylesheets, and pointers
     as to where to get more updated information. <action n="9"
     id="AI9"><who>LB</who><what>Update chapter 2.</what></action></p>
     <p>We had a discussion about URLs and how to include them. Some
     of the hacks mentioned included adding a URL attribute to xptr,
     xref, and figure (Sebastian's hack). We wondered if we should
     have a web page of hacks captured in the wild?  We agreed that
     the editors will look at this and that a note will be included in
     chapter 14 that mentions Sepastian's hack. A proper solution will
     have to wait for P5 and solutions from W3C. <action id="AI10"
     n="10"><who>Editors with help from SR</who><what>Add notes to P4
     that mention issue of urls and provide SR's
     hack.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I2.6">
     <head>Character Sets &ndash; Chapter 4</head>
     <p>Christian summarized the work on chapter 4. The working group
     found it difficult to deal with both the SGML and XML issues
     around character sets. It was agreed that the chapter should
     concentrate on XML with notes about SGML where it differs. It was
     noted that the xml:lang attribute and the TEI lang attribute
     overlap but do different things so we need to keep the TEI lang
     attribute. The title of the chapter might be changed to
     "Languages and Character Sets". Issues with the WSD also need to
     be dealt with. An appendix of all the acronyms would be useful
     along with examples of the differences between character and
     glyph. In short the chapter needs work. The editors will return
     an edited version of the chapter quickly (end of Feb.) to the
     working group which will then try to get it back to the editors
     by the end of March. <action n="11" id="AI11"><who>Editors and
     CW</who><what>Return edited version of chapter 4. CW and
     workgroup will then review changes.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I2.7">
     <head>Printing P4</head>
     <p>We discussed when P4 will go to print and how it will be
     printed. Lou estimated 3 months to finish the P4. John is going
     to try to get an estimate for print-on-demand costs so that we
     can compare that method to massive print job of 1000
     copies. <action id="AI12" n="12"><who>JU</who><what>Check about
     on-demand printing costs.</what></action> No CD with Dynatext
     version will be published. The schedule now is:
      <list type="simple">
       <item>End of Feb. &ndash; Draft sent out (with Character Set
       chapter rewrite)</item>
       <item>End of March &ndash; Comments solicited for no later than
       end of March.</item>
      </list>
     </p>
    </div2>
   </div1>
   <div1 id="I3">
    <head>P5</head>
    <div2 id="I3.1">
     <p>We had a general discussion of P5. We will not be constrained
     by trying to avoid breaking existing TEI-conformant documents in
     development of P5. This led to question as to what should happen
     with P4 when P5 comes out and what we should say about the life
     span of P4. Do we freeze P4 or accept only corrections for a
     fixed amount of time? We need to provide guidance to people who
     want to send suggestions.</p>
     <p>Sebastian felt we should keep P4 around for 5 years (after P5
     comes out), support software (Pizza Chef) and fix things that are
     actually broken for that period.</p>
     <p>The question was raised as to whether we should say that P4
     was the last to support SGML. Lou and Sebastian didn't want to go
     that far but it was felt we could suggest that new users use
     XML.</p>
     <p>We agreed that we don't need to make announcements about the
     future status of P4 until P5 is out.</p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I3.2">
     <p>We had a discussion about whether TEI-C Council members who
      were not TEI members could have access to the member's
      area. John is going to e-mail the board about this but believes
      they need access in order to do their work. <action id="AI13"
      n="13"><who>JU</who><what>Check with board on issue of council
      member access to member area of web site.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I3.3">
     <p>Lou reported on the areas where people had suggestions for
     P5. His list is based on a talk he gave in Pisa (see <xptr
     url="http://www.tei-c.org/Members/2001-Pisa/"/>.) We discussed
     Lou's list and decided on the following possible areas for work
     for P5:
      <list type="ordered">
       <item id="I3.3.1">Character Encoding</item>
       <item id="I3.3.2">Core Tags and Schemas</item>
       <item id="I3.3.3">Metadata and Miniheaders</item>
       <item id="I3.3.4">Source Description</item>
       <item id="I3.3.5">Transcription of Primary Sources</item>
       <item id="I3.3.6">Stand-Off Markup, Xlink and Xptr</item>
       <item id="I3.3.7">Term Banks, Dictionaries and Ontologies</item>
       <item id="I3.3.8">Tags for Authoring</item>
       <item id="I3.3.9">Multimodal Communicative Acts</item>
       <item id="I3.3.10">Metrical Annotation</item>
       <item id="I3.3.11">Image and Multimedia Annotation</item>
      </list>
     </p>
     <p>We first agreed that 3.3.2 was the business of the whole
     Council so we removed it. We then went through a process of
     selecting our top 2 issues to be dealt with by a workgroup. The
     two that got the most votes were Character Encoding and Stand-off
     Markup, Xlink and Xpntr.</p>
     <p>In the second round of voting the two issues that got the most
     votes of the remaining issues were Metadata and Miniheaders and
     Transcription of Primary Sources. Thus we have the following
     priority sequence:
      <list type="ordered">
       <item><ptr target="I3.3.2"/>Core Tags and Schemas &ndash; For the entire
       council</item>
       <item><ptr target="I3.3.1"/>Character Encoding</item>
       <item><ptr target="I3.3.6"/>Stand-Off Markup, Xlink and Xptr</item>
       <item><ptr target="I3.3.3"/>Metadata and Miniheaders</item>
       <item><ptr target="I3.3.5"/>Transcription of Primary Sources</item>
       <item><ptr target="I3.3.4"/>Source Description</item>
      </list>
     </p>
     <p>The general strategy for P5 is:
      <list type="simple">
       <item>Look at what the W3C is doing first</item>
       <item>Don't do things that others have developed standards for
       (like mathematics)</item>
       <item>Commission workgroups for what is left over</item>
      </list>
     </p>
     <p>We agreed to commission two workgroups (given the money we
     have).</p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I3.4">
     <head>Character encoding</head>
     <p>Christian Wittern was voted chair of the Character Encoding
     workgroup. The workgroup gets a budget of US $8,000. The
     workgroup has the immediate task of working with the editors to
     rewrite chapters 4 and 25 and this will involve the existing
     members and can be considered a continuation of their current
     work. (See above [<ref target="AI11">AI11</ref>].)</p>
     <p>Once done with the P4 chapters the workgroup has is renewed
     for a term of one year and should meet at least once. The new
     membership is up to the chair. The workgroup should report at the
     Oct. 11th meeting. Their task is to review the proposals in
     extenso and propose revisions to the way character encoding is
     handled in general. This will involve a rewrite of chapters 4 and
     25 &ndash; to reconsider the subject of character encoding and
     writing system declarations. A workplan is called for by the end
     of April, preliminary report in October, and final report in
     January of 2003. <action id="AI14"
     n="14"><who>CW</who><what>Create Character Encoding workgroup and
     keep it on schedule.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I3.5">
     <head>EDW 54</head>
     <p>There is a document (<xref
     url="http://www.tei-c.org/Vault/ED/edw54.tei">EDW 54</xref>) on
     how to make workgroups work. We need to all review this and send
     suggestions to editors. <action id="AI15" n="15"><who>TEI-C
     Council</who><what>Review document EDW54.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I3.6">
     <head>Stand-Off Markup, Xlink and Xptr</head>
     <p>We commissioned a workgroup on Stand-Off Markup, Xlink and
     Xptr with David Durand as chair. David has the same schedule with
     the additional request that he inform us by the end of February
     as to who the members are. This workgroup will also have a budget
     of US $8,000. We do not have a formal charge for this group; one
     should be drawn up. <action id="AI16"
     n="16"><who>DD</who><what>Create workgroup and keep it on
     schedule.</what></action></p>
     <p>For the record it was mentioned that one editor should attend
     each workgroup meeting.</p>
    </div2>
   </div1>
   <div1 id="I4">
    <head>NEH Grant</head>
    <p>John updated us on the NEH grant. The funding came in
    May. There was a problem with the TEI tax status so it is the
    University of Virginia that administers the grant. The expenses
    have to be billed over a 2 year period. The main thing the Council
    had to do was select people for task 2 (SGML to XML TEI texts
    conversion.)</p>
    <p>We came up with a list of names for the 6 experts:</p>
    <p>John Price-Wilkin (John PW), Wendell Piez, Michael Popham,
    Jessica Perry Hekman, Sue Fisher, David McKelvie, Frank Tompa</p>
    <p>We decided that John should contact John Price-Wilkin and see
    if he would chair the group. If he agrees he should then be
    provided with our suggestions for names, but allowed to select his
    team. <action id="AI17" n="17"><who>JU</who><what>Contact John PW
    about heading group.</what></action></p>
    <p>We also came up with a list of possible people for the 10 who
    have experience with SGML texts that need converting. This list
    will be passed to John PW.</p>
    <p>Julia Flanders, Lealle Fredland, Perry Willett, Louis Barch,
    Perseus Project, Nancy Kushigian, Tomaz Erjavec, Peter Flynn,
    Slave Narratives Project, Sebastian Rahtz</p>
    <p>We would recommend to the chair of this project that he/she
    make a open call for groups with significant TEI SGML holdings who
    want to participate. The chair, who we hope will be John PW,
    should be provided with a schedule that includes a report to the
    board in May. <action id="AI18" n="18"><who>JU and chair of NEH
    group</who><what>Provide chair with schedule and chair needs to
    keep to it.</what></action></p>
   </div1>
   <div1 id="I5">
    <head>ESTATE Grant</head>
    <p>We discussed the request from the ESTATE project to write a
    letter of support for their grant proposal and approved it. The
    proposal is to develop TEI training, deliver it in Europe, and
    support two workgroups. We discussed the issues around the
    protocol of other groups running TEI workgroups. John U will
    contact the leader of Estate and clarify the language in the
    grant. We did feel this grant proposal was worth supporting as it
    will not only develop and deliver TEI training, but it will also
    pay for workgroups we cannot afford. Anyone who is interested in
    the grant should look at the proposal and get comments back to
    John as soon as possible. <action id="AI19"
    n="19"><who>JU</who><what>Work with ESTATE people to improve grant
    proposal and write letter of support.</what></action></p>
   </div1>
   <div1 id="I6">
    <head>Other Business</head>
    <div2 id="I6.1">
     <head>Training</head>
     <p>We discussed training and whether TEI should certify training
     or develop training. We decided to form a committee made up of
     Geoffrey Rockwell, Julia Flanders, Perry Willett, and Sebastian
     Rahtz. The committee should look at existing training and develop
     a training strategy for the TEI.  The committee should consider
     the question of what people are willing to pay? <action id="AI20"
     n="20"><who>Training Comm = GR, JF, PW, SR</who><what>Review TEI
     training and report back with strategy.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I6.2">
     <head>Certification for Tools and Texts</head>
     <p>We discussed certifying Tools and Texts. To be able to certify
     things we may need to trademark a name and/or logo. John will
     look into that.<action n="21" id="AI21"><who>JU</who><what>Look
     into getting trademark for TEI.</what></action></p>
     <p>We decided that a committee should look generally into the
     issue of the TEI providing consulting. The members of the
     committee will be Matthew Driscoll, Merrilee Proffitt, and
     Laurent Romary. They will develop a consulting strategy for the
     TEI which could include consulting on software or texts. <action
     id="AI22" n="22"><who>Consulting Comm = MD, MP,
     LR</who><what>Review and propose strategy for TEI consulting and
     certification.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I6.3">
     <head>Copyright</head>
     <p>We discussed getting copyright clearance from all workgroups
     and Council members. John will work with lawyers to develop such
     a document and we will all have to sign it. This is to ensure
     that the TEI-C has a license to use all the materials developed
     for it. <action n="23" id="AI23"><who>JU</who><what>Develop
     copyright license doc and get us all to sign
     it.</what></action></p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id="I6.4">
     <p>The next meeting may be Oct. 11 in Chicago depending on
     funding. Rockwell was asked when these minutes would be ready and
     promised them for Friday.</p>
    </div2>
   </div1>
  </body>
 </text>
</TEI.2>
