<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 PUBLIC "-//TEI//DTD TEI Lite P4 XML 2002-05//EN" "../Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd">
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>Notes from TEI Council Conference Call of
          <date value="2005-07-08">08 July 05</date></title>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <idno type="TEI">TC M 18</idno>
        <availability status="free">
          <p>For distribution first to Council, then to world via TEI
            website.</p>
        </availability>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc default="NO">
        <p>This electronic file is the source.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Call started at 13:03 UTC with <list>
            <item>Syd Bauman</item>
            <item>Lou Burnard</item>
            <item>James Cummings</item>
            <item>Matthew Driscoll</item>
            <item>Julia Flanders</item>
            <item>Sebastian Rahtz</item>
            <item>Natasha Smith</item>
            <item>Perry Willet</item>
            <item>Christian Wittern</item>
          </list>
        </p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div id="ai1">
        <head>Review of Actions</head>
        <p>The following action items from the <xref url="./tcm17.xml?style=printable">previous minutes</xref>
          were reviewed:
          <list type="gloss">
            <label id="air01">JC: stylesheet HOWTO</label>
            <item>Progress has been made, although the document is not
              finished. Parts of the underlying technology that the
              document describes may be changing soon. Unless there
              are major such changes, James expects the stylesheet
              HOWTO to be complete by <date value="2005-08-01">01
                Aug</date>.<note type="action"> <label>JC</label>
                Finish HOWTO for stylesheet module
                <date>2005-08-01</date> </note>
            </item>
            <label id="air02">MD: post summary of comments received on
              MS, with proposed responses</label>
            <item>The summary of comments received was posted
              immediately before the conference call, and a more
              thorough one is expected in one week. <note type="action"> <label>MD</label> post more thorough
                version of comments received, and also proposed
                responses <date>2005-07-15</date> </note> The comments
              received so far identify lots of small problems, but no
              major issues overlooked or gotten wrong were pointed
              out. Lots of classic problems that have been discussed
              repeatedly were also brought up. In addition, there were
              reports of problems (in particular missing features)
              that were false, i.e. the system does permit the desired
              encoding; this indicates either that the reviewer did
              not carefully read the documentation, or that the
              documentation insufficient. It was suggested, without
              dissent, that MD produce a consolidated report
              addressing comments received divided into those three
              broad categories: corrections made, documentation
              improved, well-trodden paths.</item>
            <label id="air03">MD revisions to manuscript description
              chapter</label>
            <item>Due <date value="2005-10-21">before members
                meeting</date>, MD certainly hopes it will be done by
              then</item>
            <label id="air04">Roma under Windows</label>
            <item>deferred, AB not present</item>
            <label id="air05">P5 instructions for XMetal &amp;
              XMLSpy</label>
            <item>deferred, AB not present</item>
            <label id="air06">JW: P5 instructions for oXygen</label>
            <item>Have been posted to list and then to <xref url="../Software/oxygensetup.xml">TEI website</xref>.
              JW will be adding a section on handling already existing
              files (as opposed to creating new ones) on the basis of
              useful feedback from JC.</item>
            <label id="air07">MD: create some examples demonstrating
              the different approaches (of assassinating
              attributes)</label>
            <item>MD had not done so, in the belief that the examples
              included in footnotes 2, 3, &amp; 4 of the minutes from
              the Paris meeting were sufficient. LB would like
              examples that are of real encodings of real-world
              problems. <note type="action"> <label>LB</label> look at
                list of attributes that need to be assassinated,
                report back to Council which ones are trivial (e.g.,
                because element is empty and there is only 1 such
                attribute), not difficult, or present real problems
                that might need this approach <date>2005-08-01</date>
              </note></item>
            <label id="air08">SB: attributes &amp; datatypes</label>
            <item>Discussion deferred to <ref target="sai3.4" targOrder="U">below</ref>.</item>
            <label id="air09">JF &amp; PW: post discussion of various
              methods for handling <ident type="attrName">reg</ident>
              of the various naming elements</label>
            <item>Not completed yet, but JF &amp; PW expect to post by
              end of day today.</item>
            <label id="air10">LB: Report on progress of discussions of
              <gi>index</gi> attributes</label>
            <item>Done.</item>
            <label id="air11">JF &amp; EV: rationalization of <ident type="attrName">cert</ident> attribute</label>
            <item>JF reports that with EV having dropped out and no
              one stepping up to replace him, she has been somewhat
              delayed. Nonetheless, she is hoping to send out a draft
              by next week. <note type="action"> <label>JF</label>
                post draft document discussing rationalization of
                <ident type="attrName">cert</ident> attribute (see
                first item in section <xref url="./tcm17.xml?style=printable#tcm17div_num_08">Some 
                  open issues</xref> of previous minutes).
                <date>2005-07-16</date> </note></item>
            <label id="air12">SB: make all <ident type="attrName">resp</ident> attributes into
              pointers</label>
            <item>Scheduled for end of August, still planning to do so
              then.</item>
            <label id="air13">LB: research whether <ident type="attrName">loc</ident> performs the same function
              as <ident type="attrName">cref</ident></label>
            <item>LB reports this has not been done; will do so before
              next call. <note type="action"> <label>LB</label> Report
                to Council on results of research whether <ident type="attrName">loc</ident> performs the same
                function as <ident type="attrName">cref</ident>
                <date>1 week before next call</date> </note>
            </item>
            <label id="air14">SB &amp; DD: finish SA discussions of
              XPointer</label>
            <item>SB reports this was deliberately delayed due to
              attribute &amp; datatype project. Syd &amp; David have a
              meeting scheduled for <date value="2005-07-11">Mon 11
                Jul</date>. CW is looking for a plan for how we expect
              to move forward on surrounding issues (e.g., MIME type
              and XPointer schema registry). <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> with DD produce brief report on
                process for getting XPointer schemes registered
                <date>2005-07-22</date> </note>
            </item>
            <label id="air15">SB: fix P5 bibliography using
              <gi>bibl</gi>, report on usability of
              <gi>bibl</gi></label>
            <item>SB reports, like SA, deliberately delayed due to
              attribute &amp; datatype project.<note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> BIBL <date>2005-09-08</date> </note>
            </item>
            <label id="air16">JW &amp; NS: quick report on progress of
              the header element mapping</label>
            <item>A very brief report has been posted. JW reports that
              they are not expecting to recommend actual significant
              changes to header, but do expect to recommend the need
              for, and to write, instructions on using namespaces and
              where to put other metadata. CW wonders of TEI documents
              should point to their <soCalled>parent</soCalled> METS
              documents.</item>
            <label id="air17">CW: Look at current epigraphical
              standards, report findings</label>
            <item>CW has made some progress and posted results. CW had
              informed the epiDoc project folks of the project in HD
              and a plan to produce a customization for that project,
              with a focus on how to describe the objects. Tom Elliot
              responded today and said that this sounds interesting.
              He sent some information about what he and others are
              doing and said that their main aim is more towards a
              <soCalled>best practice</soCalled> approach, in other
              words to guide epigraphers with the encoding, rather
              than with the description. There are, according to Tom,
              debates about where to put the descriptive metadata
              (header vs. body) and how to do them, so any development
              here would be welcome. He was also happy seeing the TEI
              move in this direction and would welcome (and
              collaborate on) a possible epDescription chapter in the
              future.</item>
          </list>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div id="ai2">
        <head>Review of WG etc. progress</head>
        <div id="sai2.1">
          <head>Standoff Markup</head>
          <p>See <ptr target="air14" targOrder="U"/></p>
        </div>
        <div id="sai2.2">
          <head>Feature Structures</head>
          <p>LB reports that chapter is still out for review in ISO
            process. Meeting to resolve comments garnered during this
            process will be <date value="2005-08-22">Mon 22 Aug</date>
            in Warsaw.</p>
        </div>
        <div id="sai2.3">
          <head>Physical Bibliography</head>
          <p>JF reports that Murray McGillivray has hit the ground
            running, posting several interesting questions in the past
            few days. JF has responded and will ping others in the
            group to respond or to drop out.</p>
          <p>JF wants to know how closely PB should interact with MS.
            It was pointed out that most of the work of MS is
            currently in the hands of its chair (MD), and that further
            work is needed. It was also pointed out that the MS
            chapter has gaps, including collation, which it would make
            sense for PB to fill. CW suggests PB report to Council,
            which can then see if they wish to charter new group or
            take other action.</p>
        </div>
        <div id="sai2.4">
          <head>biblItem</head>
          <p>SB reports that per request of Council he has made no effort in
            this area, pending the results of the BIBL action item
            (see <ptr target="air15" targOrder="U"/>).</p>
        </div>
        <div id="sai2.5">
          <head>IHS</head>
          <p>Item was covered in <ptr target="air16" targOrder="U"/>, above.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div id="ai3">
        <head>P5 progress</head>
        <div id="sai3.1">
          <head>principles for publication of snapshots</head>
          <p>After some discussion, there was general agreement that
            Sourceforge <soCalled>releases</soCalled> (as opposed to
            the continuing maintenance in the CVS tree) of the source
            ODDs, the derived HTML, and the stylesheets that convert
            the former to the latter can be made without explicit
            Council approval. There were three suggestions on when
            such releases would occur: a pre-defined timetable; when
            significant updates occur or have accrued, based on the
            editors' judgement; and at Sebastian's readiness to do so.
            This issue was left unresolved, but it was agreed by all
            that a new release should be orchestrated very soon,
            probably within a week or two.<note type="action">
              <label>Eds</label>
              ensure that P5 is in sufficient condition for a
                release
              <date>2005-07-19</date>
            </note><note type="action">
              <label>SR</label>
              after Eds give go-ahead, create new release
              <date>2005-07-22</date>
            </note>
          </p>
          <p>It was generally agreed that the HTML version of P5 that
            is available on the TEI website should be the same as the
            most recent Sourceforge released version.</p>
        </div>
        <div id="sai3.2">
          <head>directory layout</head>
          <p>Council agreed to pursue the two-directory structure
            recently outlined by SR, presuming Debian does not object.
            SB &amp; SR will hammer out the details over the weekend
            in the hopes of having a structure ready (for use by
            SyncRO Soft) by Monday.<note type="action">
              <label>SR &amp; SB</label>
              Hammer out details of directory layout
              <date>2005-07-11</date>
            </note>
          </p>
        </div>
        <div id="sai3.3">
          <head>infrastructure for translations of gloss and desc</head>
          <p>Not discussed.</p>
        </div>
        <div id="sai3.4">
          <head>on Attributes and Datatypes</head>
          <p>Concern was expressed over the use of W3C <ident type="kw">pattern</ident> facets, particularly in the
            datatype <ident type="datatype">tei.data.duration</ident>.
            There was disagreement about the general principle of
            whether or not the TEI should force itself to stick to
            strict W3C datatypes, but it was clear that the issue
            required more discussion.</p>
          <p>It was generally agreed that further evaluation of the
            proposals would be needed before fruitful discussion could
            occur. It was suggested (separately) that these issues be
            resolved both at the <soCalled>class</soCalled> meeting at
            the end of September and before that meeting.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div id="ai4">
        <head>Other business</head>
        <p>Council agreed that an element to go inside <gi>figure</gi>
          and contain binary data was acceptable. However, the
          consensus was to use a more descriptive name than
          <gi>bob</gi>. It was suggested we look at what METS calls
          binary objects.</p>
        <p>Council placed a standing action on the editors to produce
          list of changes that have been made to (the CVS source tree
          of) P5 one week before each conference call or meeting of
          Council.</p>
      </div>
      <div id="ai5">
        <head>Next Call</head>
        <p>Several dates were discussed, without final resolution.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>Call ended at approximately 14:30.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text>
</TEI.2>