<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "../../../editor/meet-mins.dtd" [
  <!ATTLIST xref url CDATA #IMPLIED>
  <!ATTLIST xptr url CDATA #IMPLIED>
  <!ENTITY what "[?...?]" >
  ]>
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TCM10: TEI Council Conference Call <date value="2004-03-29">29 Mar 04</date></title>
        <author>Syd Bauman</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <p>For distribution first to Council, then to world via TEI
          website.</p>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>This electronic file is the source.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>Started 13:06 with NS, DD, JF, MD, PW, SS, EV, SB, LB, SR,
          AB, CW; DB @ 13:34 after having been stuck in an elevator.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
        <head>Previous Minutes</head>
        <list>
          <item>SR reports Roma development list has been established and
            seen a little traffic.</item>
          <item>DD reports has done nothing</item>
          <item>CW believes Sanskritters will be able to deliver something
            for P5. They have been convinced to be a bit more general.
            Interesting note: they have independently invented
            <gi>choice</gi>.<action>
              <name>CW</name>
              <resp>Liaison with Sanskritters and request that they
                prepare at least a report, if not deliverables, for
                Council meeting in May.</resp>
              <dueDate>none assigned</dueDate>
            </action>
          </item>
          <item>CW reports that he has reconsider item 8 from previous
            meeting, and thinks we should not in fact set up a joint
            committee. No one disagreed.</item>
          <item>Only META asked for funding, or at least took it.</item></list>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>CE</head>
        <p>CW reports little progress on Ch. 4, pending input from MB.
          <action>
            <name>SB</name>
            <resp>Get MB's phone # from LB, and attempt phone
              contact.</resp>
            <dueDate>none assigned</dueDate>
          </action> WG is almost done with what is called CEW06. All
          seem to think this one is going very well. Credits
          particularly to LB and M. Duerst. Group still needs a good
          name for what is currently called WSD-NG.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>SO</head> <p>DD has been the bottleneck. Agrees in
          principle with suggestion from SB over the weekend. <note
            resp="SB">Lou &mdash; were I writing these minutes I'd post my
            mail to TEI-SOM, then provide a pointer to it for Council. Let
            me know if you want me to go ahead with that idea.</note>
          Would like to set up meetings with SB. SB agreed to idea. LB
          suggests we need a fall back plan. FV was only suggestion.
          Thus, SB &amp; DD to meet regularly and use work-plan SB sent
          to LB &amp; DD over weekend. LB and JF to oversee, as it
          were.<action>
            <name>DD</name>
            <resp>Post to TEI-SOM new plan of action</resp>
            <dueDate>ASAP</dueDate>
          </action>
          <action>
            <name>SB &amp; DD</name>
            <resp>Write up draft of main XPointer recommendations</resp>
            <dueDate>2004-04-06</dueDate>
          </action>
          <action>
            <name>SB &amp; DD</name>
            <resp>Write up draft of main portions of SO W 03</resp>
            <dueDate>2004-05-06</dueDate>
          </action>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>FS</head>
        <p>Was doing very well; good meeting in Nancy; even better one
          in Korea. Some dissension occurred when question of
          re-entrancy or shared structures came up. Not solved.
          Waiting for more input and discussion within group. ISO
          intending a list of current implementations. Since we'll
          have list, we can notify folks about P4 to P5 changes.</p>
        <p>Group will meet informally at LREC in late May; formally in
          late Aug. At least LB, probably SB, will need to be funded
          to this latter meeting. No WG funding for former.</p>
        <p>DD notes that why changes made and implications thereof not
          clear in FSW01. LB responds that this document is intended
          to be read in conjunction with the draft chapter.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>MS</head>
        <p>WG has mostly been waiting for LB to get Master DTD into
          RelaxNG, which is just now done. DB raises issue of TF v WG.
          Basic plan is for current group to work out Reykjavik
          proposals by May Council meeting, then consider expansion
          &amp; face-to-face. <action>
            <name>MS WG</name>
            <resp>Finish up work begun in Reykjavik</resp>
            <dueDate>2004-05-06</dueDate>
          </action></p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>ME</head>
        <p>ODD language itself revised again in Paris. TD will be
          ready to discuss in May. Implementation except for
          extensions essentially done. Extensions will take
          longer.</p>
        <p>Extensions will also cover needs of internationalization.
          Web interface will need work and likely take longer, too.</p>
        <p>SR hopes work of <sic corr="WG">TF</sic> can be declared done in May. &what; </p>
        <p>Question of how Guidelines should recommend users actually
          create extensions.</p>
        <p>LB points out that this (TD) is probably the most important
          thing for Council members to tackle and have a good
          understanding of. SB agrees.</p>
        <p>SB recommends either TD become more tutorial-like or a
          separate tutorial be written. JF suggests perhaps WWP Guide,
          which will cover this anyway, might serve a lay audience. SR suggests TM,
          LB suggests AB, do so. AB says he will most likely not have
          time to commit to this project.</p>
        <p>SR plans to have a couple of simple extensions available
          for Council in May.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>PB</head>
        <p>Main goal of group is to develop encoding for collation
          formula. Discussion on how PB and MS may or may not
          overlap. LB points out that work of PB could perhaps be
          plugged into MS.</p>
        <p><action>
            <name>DB</name>
            <resp>Send the work he has done on collation sequence
              encoding for his own manuscript project to PB (i.e., JF
              or TC).</resp>
            <dueDate>ASAP</dueDate>
          </action>
          SB, JF, &amp; DB to meet in mid-April in Providence.</p>
        <p>ACTION: JF write charge by DB's trip here (16 Apr).</p>
        <p><action>
            <name>JF</name>
            <resp>Write draft of PB WG charge.</resp>
            <dueDate>2004-04-15</dueDate>
          </action>
          JF hopes also to spur, if not produce, a list of related
          issues that need to be tackled.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>Wrapped up at 14:23 with information that Members' Meeting
          will be at John's Hopkins on <date value="2004-10-22/23">22
            &amp; 23 Oct</date>. MD will be doing a workshop there in
          April.</p>
        <p>SS requests that documents for next meeting be on website
          well before meeting. All agreed to <date
            value="2004-05-06">06 May</date>.</p>
        <p>EV will investigate group hotel rates, but doesn't have
          much hope.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text>
</TEI.2>
