<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="tcm15_files/teixlite.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 PUBLIC "-//TEI//DTD TEI Lite P4 XML 2004-07//EN" "../Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd">
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TCM15: TEI Council Conference Call
	  <date value="2005-01-31">31 Jan 05</date></title>
        <author>Syd Bauman</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <p>For distribution first to Council, then to world via TEI
          website.</p>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>This electronic file is the source.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>Started 13:04 with all Council members except MD (who had
          posted he would be unavailable), and LR who arrived at
          14:05.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
        <head>Previous Minutes</head>
        <p>The following are listed in the same order as in the <xref url="./tcm14.html#id4532366">previous minutes</xref>
          themselves.</p>
        <list>
          <item>[?...?]</item>
          <item>discussion deferred to end of conference call</item>
          <item>JF reports that she posted (to tei-council on
            2004-11-29 17:15), and there was a brief flurry of
            discussion. Council now recommends that Julia actually
            create the call following up &amp; expanding on recent
            TEI-L postings.
            <note type="action">
              <label>JF</label>
              produce call, run it by Lou (for XSLT expertise)
              and post it
              <date>2005-02-15</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <item>PW has not yet contacted Paul Tremblay; PW to look after this
            item</item>
          <item>SB to initiate a test prodding system for Council to
            consider SF feature request artifacts. The basic idea is
            that SB will periodically post a specific topic for
            discussion, and immediately council members will review
            and discuss it. Hopefully within a brief period some
            closure (perhaps even a decision!) will be obtained, and
            an individual council member will volunteer to shepherd the
            issue through whatever progress is then required. If no
            one volunteers, council members may be assigned
            alphabetically. <note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              Post first feature request artifact prod to
              council
              <date>2005-02-07</date>
            </note>
          </item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>SH</head>
        <p>JW reports that SB &amp; TEI in Libraries SIG had asked him
          &amp; NS to review SH chapter. They have done so, keeping
          and elaborating the sections on meta-data mapping for
          incorporation into HD, and removing the independent header
          bits, as the concept of an independent header is being
          dropped from the Guidelines. JW has catalogers in Indiana
          reviewing the meta-data stuff, and it will then go via NS to
          catalogers at UNC. At this point the draft will be opened to
          bigger group <note resp="sb" place="inline">probably TEI-LIB
            initially</note>. JW thinks discussion of MARC records and
          Dublin Core will be done by end of Feb. The editors applaud
          the work done so far, and hope it can continue. There is
	  need for more material on interoperability, mentioning for
	  example the use of name spaces, related standards like DC
	  and METS. The suggestion that a generic
	  metadata element is needed (see for example <xref url="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&amp;aid=958388&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">Tim Finney's proposal</xref>) needs to be addressed â€”
          perhaps this chapter should have a section explaining why
          such an element is not a good idea, as it seems to be a
          FAQ.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>WG reports</head>
        <div>
          <head>PB</head>
          <p>JF reports PB chair has resigned for personal reasons.
            Seeks advice of Council on identifying a new chair. EV is
            too busy. Two names suggested were Murray McGilvray and
	    Daniel O'Donnell: JF to contact them, proposing a  very
            precise brief.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>SO</head>
          <p>SB reports the WG as a whole has been moribund, but
            chair DD spent time in 2004-12 helping get their working
            papers incorporated into SA. Still a lot of work to be
            done, but it's there.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>FS</head>
          <p>The DIS is going for final ballot very soon. It was
            pointed out that, because the FS WG did not switch from
            <kw>ID/IDREF</kw> to <ident type="attrName">xml:id</ident>/<kw>URI</kw>, we are now
            out of synchronization with the proposed standard. It is not clear
            what ISO TC37/SC4 wants to do with FSDs; so far they have been
            unable to find an editor to take it on.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>P5</head>
        <p>P5 first alpha draft is out. After some discussion about
          the need to get people to use, test, and report back about
          P5, it was decided that we'd make some effort to provide
          people with easier installation methods.
          <note type="action">
            <label>all</label>
            send their preferred P5 editing environment to LB
          </note> SS suggests that there should be
          conference-related half-day workshops about how to set up and
          use P5.</p>
        <p>CW suggests that a SF package should have same file
          hierarchy as Debian. <note type="action"> <label>SR</label>
            build tarballs that have hierarchy built in (from
            /usr/share/xml/ level on down) </note></p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>P5 Editorial Committee</head>
        <p>There was some agreement that a management or oversight
          subcommittee of the Council was needed.
          <note type="action">
            <label>all</label>
            read edw81
            &amp; send comments to the council list
          </note>
          <note type="action">
            <label>all</label>
            send views on editorial committee (including whether
            or not you volunteer) to LB
          </note>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>META</head>
        <p>Council thanks SR and META, WG decommissioned.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Meeting</head>
        <p>After miraculously brief discussion, we decided to hold a
          face-to-face meeting at AFNOR in Paris (thanks, LR!) on Thu
          04-28 afternoon, Fri 04-29 all day, and also allowing for
          overflow into Sat 04-30 if needed.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>Call ended at approximately 14:40.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text>
</TEI.2>