<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="http://www.tei-c.org.uk/Stylesheets/teixlite.css"?>
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TC M13: TEI Council Conference Call 20 Sept 04</title>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <idno type="TEI">TC M 13</idno>
        <publisher>Text Encoding Initiative Consortium</publisher>
        <authority>TEI-C Council</authority>
        <availability>
          <p>For distribution first to Council, then to world via TEI
            website.</p>
        </availability>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>No source: this is the original.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
    <revisionDesc>
      <change><date>20 Sept
      04</date><respStmt><name>Lou</name></respStmt><item>First draft,
      using Syd's notes and my scribbles</item>
      </change>
    </revisionDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <body>

        <p>The following were present during the call which started at
        13:05 UTC: Syd Bauman (SB), Alex Bia (AB), David Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard
        (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD), David Durand (DD), Julia Flanders
        (JF), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (LR), Susan
        Schreibman (SS), Natasha
        Smith (NS), Edward Vanhoute (EV), Perry Willett (PW),
        Christian Wittern (CW).
      </p>
<list type="ordered">
<item n="1">Actions from the <xref url="tcm12.html">previous
      meeting</xref> were reviewed: 
        <list type="simple">
          <item>CW reported that John Smith had expressed concern at the slow progress
	  made in acting on his group's proposals. LB apologised for
	  the delay; he had now posted a suggestion for how the examples
	  cited in the group's paper might be encoded. (Circulated to
	  Council on 17 Sept). It was expected that JS would react to this
	  proposal on the TEI-CHOICE list, of which he was already a
	  member. SB then gave a brief summary of the issues
	  currently under discussion  on the TEI-CHOICE list: the
	  chief issue was whether or not the semantics of the
	  &lt;choice> element were restricted to those of the
	  <soCalled>mirror</soCalled> tags in P4, or whether they
	  should be expanded to include e.g. combinations of addition
	  and deletion.  	  <note type="action">
	    <label>LB</label><date>27 sep 04</date>
	    propose and document revised content model for
	    &lt;choice&gt;  to  choice list; use date of members
	    meeting as guillotine for discussion.
	  </note> </item>
          <item>The URL for the discussion of morphosyntactic tagging
	  referred to in the previous minutes is: 
<xptr url="http://www.isotc37sc4.org/doc/ISO TC 37-4 N046 Proposal_of_Morphosyntactic_annotation_framework.pdf"/></item>
          <item>The editors had attempted a revised preliminary timetable
	  for publication of P5 (<xptr url="edw81.html"/>), but not 
          completed it satisfactorily. Council discussed the intended
	  timescale for moving TEI P5 chapters to SourceForge, without
	  firm conclusion. It was agreed that some global changes
	  (e.g. from id to xml:id) should be made and possibly some
	  material flagged with health warnings before moving to
	  SF. </item>
          <item>JF reported that she and DD had discussed the somewhat
	  daunting technicalities of registering TEI as a MIME type;
	  she felt the action should continue but with a low
	  priority. </item>
          <item>JF had not yet posted a <soCalled>Letter from the
	  Chair</soCalled>, but intended to do so before the members meeting. She
	  suggested that such notes should go out quarterly, with a
	  preliminary request for input for them to Board and Council
	  a week before hand: so agreed. SS asked about the status of
	  SIGs which had been inactive since proposed at the last
	  MM. It was agreed that SIGs had to make their own way in
	  the world; also that it might be a good idea to remind
	  Members that SIGs could be formed at any time; and how to do
	  it. LB pointed to the material already on the website from
	  the Nancy meeting. </item>
         <item>The action on the editors to <q>
              draft document discussing relationship of TEI Header to
	      other meta standards on the basis of material already
	      available, to be handed to the TEI Libraries SIG for
	      improvement and updating</q> was not discussed; it is
	      presumably carried forward
	 </item>
	</list></item>
<item>DD gave an update on the StandOff Markup WG. The plan to produce
a replacement draft for
	chapter SA by end of July had not been successful, but DD
	had  sent a preliminary revision of the chapter to SB on 19
	Sep. LB suggested and Council agreed that it would also be
	helpful to have an updated version of the Issues paper
	(<xptr url="../Activities/SO/sow09.html"/>) presented at the Gent meeting. 
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>DD/SB</label>
            <date>4 Oct 04</date>
	    Post updated version of SOW09 to Council
	  </note>
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>SB/DD</label>
            <date>4 Oct 04</date>
	    Check in a valid and updated version of chapter SA
	  </note>
</item>
<item>SR presented the <xref
url="../Activities/META/mew12.html">report from the Meta
workgroup</xref>, suggesting that the ODD system was now
feature-complete and should not be further modified, other than for error
fixing. The system supported all requirements so far proposed to
the Meta workgroup. Council noted that there might be a requirement to
further modify the ODD language as more use-cases were identified in
testing, e.g. to support co-occurrence constraints, but agreed that it should be frozen for at least six months
to enable testing to proceed.  </item>
<item>LR reported that the TEI-ISO workgroup had met in August in
Paris, but that no changes relevant to the FS chapter of P5 had been
identified. Some work remained to be done on the additional
tutorial material and terminology of  ISO DIS 24610, which Kiyong Lee and
others have in hand. SB asked about the status of the Feature System
Declaration: this had not yet been taken up by the ISO group, and the
proposed new chair for this activity had not yet accepted the
honour. Council felt that it would be useful to check whether or not
the P4 FSD and the P5 FSR were interoperable.
	  <note type="action">
	    <label>LR</label><date>1 Jan 05</date>
	    investigate and report on any incompatibility between P4
	    FSD and ISO feature structure representation.
	  </note>
</item>
<item>MD reported that the Manuscript Description Taskforce had not
responded to his request for comments on the draft circulated in
July. There remained a small number of outstanding minor
issues. Council suggested that the workgroup should be given a further
two weeks to comment and to finalize the draft, after which it should
be announced to the DM-L list and to the TEI Manuscript SIG as
available for comment.
<note type="action">
	    <label>MD/DB</label><date>4 Oct 04</date>
	    finalize draft of MS </note>
</item>
<item>JF reported that there had also been very little progress from
the workgroup on Physical Bibliography, and that she would raise this
with the workgroup head. It was suggested that some small and easily achieved
goals might be addressed (e.g. page image handling), perhaps as
proposals to SourceForge.</item>
<item>Council then turned to the feature requests for P5
so far collected on Source Forge, and discussed what process should be
used to evaluate them. Lack of time precluding a
discussion of each one, the editors were asked to propose some way of
handling them as a group, or of prioritizing them for attention. LB
asked again for all council
members to review the proposals and add a comment indicating their
view. It was hoped that a useful summary could be presented at the Members Meeting.
<note type="action"><label>Editors</label><date>?</date>To propose a
method of managing SF feature requests so as to facilitate gathering
of input from Council members</note>
<note type="action"><label>All</label><date>14 Oct</date>Read all
feature requests and express an opinion on as many as possible</note>
</item>
<item>CW would be making a single written report from the Council
would be made, for which he again requested
input from all active Council members.
<note type="action">
<label>All</label>
send material for Council report to CW
<date>30 Sep 04</date>
</note></item>
          </list>
        <p>A provisional date of  <date value="2004-11-29">Mon 29 Nov
	at 1300 UTC</date> was set for the next call.</p>

    </body>
  </text>
</TEI.2>
