<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TCM10: TEI Council Conference Call <date value="2004-03-29">29 Mar 04</date></title>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <p>For distribution first to Council, then to world via TEI
          website.</p>
      </publicationStmt>
   <sourceDesc><p>From Syd's draft, checked against Lou's manuscript notes</p></sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
<revisionDesc>
<list>
<item><date>1 Apr 04</date> LB: drafted </item>
   </list></revisionDesc> </teiHeader>
<text>
<body>

<p>The following were present: Syd Bauman (SB), Alejandro Bia (AB),
David Birnbaum (DB) in part, Lou Burnard (LB), Matthew Driscoll (MD),
David Durand (DD), Tomaz Erjavec (TE), Julia Flanders (JF), Sebastian
Rahtz (SR),
Susan Schreibman (SS), Natasha Smith (NS), Edward Vanhoutte (EV),
Perry Willett (PW), Christian Wittern (CW).
    </p>
<p>Apologies had been received from Laurent Romary; DB joined the
meeting half way through after an unfortunate elevator-related incident.
</p>  <list type="ordered">
<item n="1">Actions from <xref url="tcm09.html">previous
      meeting</xref> were reviewed: 
        <list>
          <item>[3] Roma development list has been established and
            seen a little traffic.</item>
          <item>[5] No further progress from the SO group and no
	    report submitted. On today's agenda. </item>
          <item>[7] CW reported that John Smith had set up a workgroup
	  on Sanskrit encoding issues, which was likely to deliver
	  recommendations of more general scope. LB reported that the
	  group seems to have  independently re-invented
           the <gi>choice</gi> mechanism.<note type="action">
              <label>CW</label><date>ASAP</date>
               request Sanskrit WG to produce a report for
	       consideration at the Council meeting in May.
            </note>
          </item>
          <item>[8] CW reported that, on further consideration, he
	  felt these topics were better left to the Board. No one disagreed.</item>
          <item> [9] CW reported that
      so far only the Meta workgroup had requested funding. Of the $20k
      allocated for workgroup activities in the current year, about
      half was currently uncommitted..</item></list>
</item>
      <item>CW reported on the CE workgroup's output. Council reviewed
	CEW06 and endorsed it as a replacement for the current WSD
	chapter in P5, with the proviso that some better name than
	"WSD-NG" be found.
At its last meeting, the WG agreed that a statement about the role
of <code>xml:lang</code> in P5 would be useful. It was suggested this
might fit into the document CEW04, work on which seemed to have stagnated.
          <note type="action">
            <label>Editors</label><date>Immediately</date>attempt to
	    re-establish contact with Michael Beddows</note>
      </item>
      <item>Council noted with concern the continued lack of progress
	from the StandOff Workgroup, for which DD accepted
	responsibility. Over the weekend, SB had formulated a work
	plan for addressing the most urgent needs, which he
	volunteered to work closely with DD on accomplishing. The
workplan is summarized in a note, details of which had yet to be
agreed by the workgroup, but which mostly involve SB and DD working
closely on some existing documents. <note type="action">
            <label>DD</label><date>immediately</date>
            Post to TEI-SOM new plan of action
          </note>
          <note type="action">
            <label>SB &amp; DD</label>
            <date>2004-04-06</date>
            Write up draft of main XPointer recommendations
          </note>
          <note type="action">
            <date>2004-05-06</date>
            <label>SB &amp; DD</label>
            Write up draft of main portions of SO W 03
          </note>
	Noting that getting another person up to speed
	in time for P5 would be difficult, and that other wg members
	(e.g. Fabio Vitale) were just as short of time, Council agreed
	in principle to this plan, on the assumption that SB and DD
	would meet regularly, and that LB and JF would monitor progress.
              </item>
      <item>In the absence of LR, LB reported progress in the
	joint ISO/TEI feature structure group. The recent Korean
	meeting had been very productive, and a fairly complete draft
	agreed. Some issues were still under debate within the group
	(notably the best way of representing re-entrant structures)
	but it was still planned to have a final draft for
	consideration by the Council in May. Several members of the
	group would be meeting informally at the LREC conference in
	Lisbon shortly before the next Council Meeting and any
	outstanding problems should be resolved by that date. A
	further meeting of the ISO TC37/WG4 was planned for Paris in
	August, which LB planned to attend.
DD noted that the document FSW01 did not give any 
rationale for or discussion of the changes made between P4 and
P5,being simply a summary. More discussion is available in the draft;
LB also noted that a list of  implementations of the current P4 system
was included as an ISO deliverable, so liaison with that user
community should not be too difficult.
      </item>
      <item>
        MD reported that the group had mostly been waiting for
	the ODD format to stabilize so that a new draft could be
	prepared. LB had only recently converted the existing Master
	documentation to the new format; once this was done it was
	planned to start implementing the basic revisions agreed at
	the Reykjavik meeting. This would be completed before any
	further expansion of content, and would be ready in time for
	the May meeting.<note type="action">
            <label>LB</label>
            Draft proposals from Reykjavik in new ODD format
            <date>2004-04-15</date>
          </note>
      </item>
      <item><p>SR reported that the Metalanguage workgroup had held a very
	productive meeting in Paris, following which the ODD language
had been further revised. The new draft for TD was well on course for
P5, and the editorial toolkit was now functional (i.e. the draft TD document
generates schemas and DTDs which validate it).  Some more
implementation work remained for TEI customizations, but the
basic mechanism was now in place. It had also been agreed that
	internationalization would use the same mechanism as customization.
</p>   <p>SR was confident that the work would be complete by early
	May. Council members were urged to study this documentation,
	since it is the one part of the TEI which all future
	developers and workgroup heads need to  understand fully.</p>
<p>It was suggested that additional tutorial material should be
prepared to complement the basic reference material in this draft. JF
mentioned that the <title>WWP Encoding Guide</title> was currently
being revised and would include a section on P5 migration, which might usefully include a layman's explanation and case study on how to do customization. SR suggested
that the Ibsen project also had a major customization and that he had
been working with  Tone Merete Brevik on porting this to P5.
<note type="action">
<label>SR</label>
<date>1 May 04</date>
to produce documentation of a few simple customizations using the new
facilities</note>
</p>
      </item>
      <item>
        Council then discussed the  proposal for a new workgroup
	on Physical Bibliography, previously  circulated by JF. Its
	main objective would be detailed recommendation for the
	encoding of collation
          formulae and of the phenomena  corresponding with them in
	  running text. Council discussed possible synergy with the work
	  of the MS group and other projects, and approved formation of the group
	  conditional on further clarification of its exact remit.  DB
	  would be visiting Brown mid-April and would be able to
	  contribute his own experience to the project.
        <note type="action">
            <label>DB</label>
            <date>ASAP</date>
            Send details of previous completed  work on encoding of collation sequences
             to JF.
          </note>
<note type="action">
            <label>JF</label>
            <date>2004-04-15</date>
            Draft and circulate to Council a proposed charge to the Physical
	    Bibliography workgroup</note>
      </item>
<item>Under AOB, there was some discussion of future meetings:
<list>
<item>The 2004 Members' Meeting
          will be held at John's Hopkins on <date>22
            &amp; 23 Oct</date>. MD will be doing a workshop there in
          April.</item>
<item>EV had prepared a website with details of accomodation etc. for
the Council face to face meeting in May. He would investigate possibility of
group hotel rates.   SS requested that all documents for the  meeting
be made available on the website
          well in advance, i.e. by  <date
            value="2004-05-06">06 May</date> at the latest.
</item></list></item></list></body>
  </text>
</TEI.2>
