<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 PUBLIC "-//TEI//DTD TEI Lite P4 XML 2002-05//EN"
                       "../Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd" [
<!ATTLIST xref url CDATA #IMPLIED>
<!ATTLIST xptr url CDATA #IMPLIED>
<!ENTITY what "[?...?]">
]>
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TEI Council Conference Call <date value="2007-01-23">23
            Jan 07</date></title>
        <author>Syd Bauman</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <idno type="TEI">TC M 28</idno>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>This electronic file is the source.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>Started ~12:06. Meeting participants were LB, CW, SB, SR,
          AC, CT, DO, TM, LR, JW, DB, DP, and a mysterious tennis
          player.</p>
        <p>MD sends apologies; JC had sent his apologies earlier.</p>
        <p>SB is taking notes.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div n="1">
        <head>Minutes from last meeting</head><list type="gloss">
          <label>SB: summarize issues surrounding dating attributes …</label>
          <item>SB reports this action was finally completed last night
            <note type="action">
              <label>all</label>
              read &amp; comment on <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2007/002164.html">SB's
                  post <title>date attributes: summary, problems, and
                    some suggestions</title> <date value="2007-01-22T22:23"/></xref> 
              <date>2006-02-06</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>LB: statement of 'limited phrase'
            problem …</label>
          <item>SB reminded Council that this had been determined to
            be a false action immediately after the last call. LB
            reminded Council that SB had proposed two possible paths forward
            in <xref
            url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001986.html">post
            <title>oops; I mis-led y'all on 'limited
                phrase' task</title> of <date value="2006-11-26T21:11"/></xref> labeled
            <q>A</q> and <q>B</q>; SR, CW, and CT all voted for
            <q>B</q>, and no one objected. <note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              implement limited phrase
              <date>2007-02-14</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>all: read &amp; comment on JW's <xref
          url="http://ella.slis.indiana.edu/~jawalsh/tei/biblItem.html">revised document</xref></label>
          <item>JW's document recommends that <gi>biblItem</gi> be
            replaced with a different mechanism (<gi>relatedItem</gi>)
            for encoding the relationship of one bibliographic item to
            another. While no one objected in principle, both SB &amp;
            LR requested more time to discuss the proposal to ensure
            that the capabilities of the current <gi>biblItem</gi> are
            retained.
            <note type="action">
              <label>LR &amp; LB</label>
              discuss <gi>relatedItem</gi> on the Council list
                &what;is this due date for discussion or implementation?&what;
              <date>2007-02-13</date>
            </note></item>
          <label>DO: inform MD how much money is available to Council</label>
          <item>DO reported his findings, explaining that the Board
	    had voted to roll Council's unspent funds from last year
	    over to this year; DO noted that this is not an automatic
	    rollover &mdash; the Board votes each year what to do whit
	    surplusses. Council agreed to spend its rollover on the
	    second <soCalled>personagrphay</soCalled> meeting MD will
	    be organizing.</item>
          <label>DP &amp; CT: post revised text &amp; image encoding
            document …</label>
          <item>A draft was posted on <date value="2006-11-23T08:25"/>: <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001993.html"><title>facsimile 
                markup</title></xref></item>
          <label>DP &amp; CT: make ODD of it</label>
          <item>CT reports he is almost done coding an ODD; he has run
            into a hitch redefining classes, hopes to have it
            straightened out soon, but may need the help of an ODD
            expert. This ODD is based on the ideas put forth in the
            <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001993.html"><title>facsimile 
                markup</title></xref> post mentioned above. There was
            general agreement that if new TEI elements are introduced
            they should probably go into chapter
            FT-TablesFormulaeGraphics.
            <note type="action">
              <label>CT (&amp; DP)</label>
              finish specifications in ODD
              <date>2007-01-27</date>
            </note><note type="action">
              <label>CT (&amp; DP)</label>
              finish prose in ODD
              <date>2007-01-31</date>
            </note>
            <note type="action">
              <label>all</label>
              read facsimile ODD, test schemata
              <date>2007-02-08</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>MD: Rewrite the examples …</label>
          <item>As MD not present, discussion of this item was
            deferred, and the item is carried forward:<note type="action">
              <label>MD</label>
              Rewrite the examples MM provides in the PB
                document using a more generic mechanism
              <date>2007-03-04</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>LB: ponder and post discussion of multilingual example
            problem …</label>
          <item>LB posted a few days ago that he does not think this
            will require changes to ODD, just a procedures
            document.<note type="action">
              <label>eds.</label>
              put <gi>exemplum</gi> into att.typed
              <date>[done]</date>
            </note>
            <note type="action">
              <label>CW</label>
              look for problems in current system; report
                findings to Council
              <date>2007-02-14</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>JC: summarize discussion of conformance and write a proposal</label>
          <item>Discussion postponed as JC not present.</item>
          <label>eds.: update [SF feature request] doc …</label>
          <item>This was not discussed on the call; however, it was
          subsequently pointed out that it will come up prominently in
          the road-map being developed.</item>
          <label>all: let list know if you expect to be available for a meeting in Berlin</label>
          <item>everyone had done so.</item>
          <label>SR: report on high speed conferences .com
            system</label>
          <item>This was not reported on directly, but since this
	  meeting was using the system, we can draw the conclusion
	  that SR has reported back on this as being worth a trial. </item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div n="2">
        <div n="A">
          <head>PB</head>
          <p>Council reluctantly concluded that, realistically, it will
            probably be necessary to defer inclusion of a detailed
            discussion of physical bibliography to a future
            sub-release of P5 (e.g., to P5 1.1).</p>
        </div>
        <div n="B">
          <head>PERS</head>
	  <p>It was reported that MD is organizing a two-headed
	    meeting in Vilnius in late February, consisting of a 2-day
	    discussion on place name issues and any other outstanding
	    personography hosted by the Institute for Lithuanian
	    Language of the Lithuanian Academy of Sciences, and a
	    1-day TEI outreach event at and co-hosted by Vilnius
	    University.</p>
        </div>
        <div n="C">
          <head>I18N</head>
          <p>As sufficient funds were available, SR has added Italian
          to the list of languages being worked on. By the summer we
          will need to think about how this stuff will be made
          available in the P5 release, i.e.  what the user interface
          and the look-and-feel will be in the online Guidelines. </p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="3">
        <head>Road to P5</head>
        <p>The discussion revolved around the possible use of
        task-tracking software and the need for a <soCalled>prodding
        czar</soCalled> to remind people of ongoing tasks to help keep
        us on schedule. It was pointed out that project management or
        task-tracking software is really just a tool in the prodding
        czar's arsenal. LB suggested that the main problem is a lack of
        resources, not lack of planning. Other said that more
        structured planning can make better use of scarce
        resources. CW suggested TCW08, EDW81 and a couple of other
        lists should be placed on a Wiki. After a lengthy discussion,
        it was decided to create a planning subcommittee, initially
        consisting of DO, CW, and SR. Their first action is to create
        a list of things which had to be achieved to reach P5 by a
        notional date of October 1st, along with their necessary dates
        of completion. When agreed, the same group would be tasked to
	ensure the tasks were implemented. The list should use previous efforts &amp;
        lists as a starting point.<note type="action"> <label>planning
        sub</label> post draft <soCalled>road-map</soCalled> list to
        Council <date>2007-02-02</date>
          </note>
          <note type="action">
            <label>all</label>
            read &amp; discuss <soCalled>road-map</soCalled> list
            <date>2007-02-09</date>
          </note>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div n="4">
        <head>Meetings</head>
        <p>LR reports all systems are <q>go</q> for Berlin. He is gathering
          a list of projects interested &what;in the pre-meeting event.</p>
        <p>Next conference call scheduled for <date value="2007-03-19T12:00">2007-03-19 12:00</date> with the
          same dialing instructions as for today's call.<note
        resp="SB" place="foot">That will be: <list type="gloss">
              <label>Vancouver</label>
              <item>Mon 19 Mar at 05:00</item>
              <label>Calgary</label>
              <item>Mon 19 Mar at 06:00</item>
              <label>Chicago</label>
              <item>Mon 19 Mar at 07:00</item>
              <label>Indianapolis</label>
              <item>Mon 19 Mar at 08:00</item>
              <label>Providence</label>
              <item>Mon 19 Mar at 08:00</item>
              <label>London</label>
              <item>Mon 19 Mar at 12:00</item>
              <label>Paris</label>
              <item>Mon 19 Mar at 13:00</item>
              <label>Taipei</label>
              <item>Mon 19 Mar at 20:00</item>
              <label>Kyoto</label>
              <item>Mon 19 Mar at 21:00</item>
              <label>Wellington</label>
              <item>Tue 20 Mar at 00:00</item>
            </list>
          </note>
        </p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>LR attempted to add something, but was cut off.</p>
        <p>Call ended at 13:27.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text>
</TEI.2>
