<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TEI Council Conference Call <date value="2006-09-27">27
            Sep 06</date></title>
        <author>Syd Bauman</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <p>For distribution first to Council, then to world via TEI
          website.</p>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>This electronic file is the source.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>Started ~12:04 with SB, SS, AK, LB, SR, JC, CW, CT, JW, DP, LR</p>
        <p>MD had sent his apologies earlier.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div n="1">
        <head>Minutes from last meeting</head>
        <list type="gloss">
          <label>Council: comment on the ‘short names’ …</label>
          <item>done</item>
          <label>eds.: implement …</label>
          <item>Implemented except for French — agreed (LB
	  dissenting) to go w/
            LR's proposal to rename fr/ files to same as en/. <note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              change French filenames, too
              <date>2006-10-11</date>
            </note></item>
          <label>CT &amp; DP: Post proposal of how to link texts and images</label>
          <item>completed</item>
          <label>Council: Read P5 chapter 14.9 Stand-off Markup …</label>
          <item>No one read the chapter and reported. CW suggests we
            can close this issue.</item>
          <label>DB: Report on TD (documentation elements) with
            respect to the class system …</label>
          <item>DB not present, deferred</item>
          <label>SB: Repost summary of the questions pending …</label>
          <item>SB reports this item has been completed. Furthermore,
            the changes to the Guidelines that were suggested have
            been enacted. The only outstanding issue from this round
            of discussion is that of certainty, accuracy, confidence,
            exactness, precision, etc. However, another issue has
            since been raised: how to encode regularizations of
            non(-proleptic)-Gregorian dates. P4, while recommending a
            specific format for (proleptic-)Gregorian dates permitted
            users to use other systems so long as they were documented
            in a particular manner. After some discussion on this
            issue we were able to reject some possibilities (e.g.,
            that the W3C syntax be retained, but without the
            restriction to (proleptic-)Gregorian dates), but were not
            able to definitively conclude how to proceed. Both use of
            one set of attributes with their semantics declared in the
            header (ala P4) was suggested, and two parallel sets of
            attributes.<note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              summarize dating attributes issues for Council, with
	      firm recommendations where possible. <date>2006-11-07</date></note></item>
          <label>SB: find places where a ‘header-phrase’ class would be useful.</label>
          <item>Done, see <xref url="http://www.tei-c.org/Council/limited_phrase.xml?style=printable#body.1_div.3">the 
              result</xref>. However, after some discussion, we were
            reminded that there are really two different questions of
            interest:<list type="ordered">
              <item>what elements in the current system would be
                better if their content models included a limited
                version of <name type="class">model.phrase</name>;
                this group includes some elements that are not found
                in the <gi>teiHeader</gi> (like <gi>figDesc</gi>), but
                excludes many that may appear in the
                <gi>teiHeader</gi> because they also can be used as
                descendants of <gi>text</gi> in a manner that would
                require the full <name type="class">model.phrase</name> (e.g. <gi>p</gi>
                and <gi>name</gi>)</item>
              <item>what parts of the <gi>teiHeader</gi> would be
                better if their content models included a limited
                version of <name type="class">model.phrase</name>,
                regardless of whether or not it is currently possible
                (because they might also appear in the transcription,
                i.e. as a descendant of <gi>text</gi>)</item>
            </list> SB had interpreted the action item as only
            referring to the first of these questions. Council
            discussed both issues; it was decided that both are worth
            pursuing<!-- , the first immediately with the intention of
            possible implementation before the initial
            (<soCalled>1.0</soCalled>) release of P5, but the second
            would be deferred until sometime in the future-->. Two
            mechanisms were identigied for verifying which elements can make use of
            the <soCalled>limited phrase</soCalled> class, and
            which require the complete <name>model.phrase</name>. The
            first was for Council members to scan the list SB produced
            looking for obvious errors or elements of concern. The
            second was to produce a schema that makes use of the
            <soCalled>limited phrase</soCalled> class, and for Council
            members to use this schema and large quantities of data
            looking for problems. Council chose the former
            method, without ruling out use of the latter later (did I get that right? —SB).<note type="action">
              <label>Council</label>
              consider list of limited phrase elements and propose
	      refinements if needed
              <date>2006-10-11</date>
            </note><note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              Implement
                <soCalled>limited phrase</soCalled> system using the
                elements in the refined version of the list.
              <date>2006-11-08</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>LR: Explain where macro.glossSeq or model.glossLike
            is not a good idea, but &lt;desc&gt; is.</label>
          <item>LR indicated that he needed a better method of
            querying TEI to look for these. He was referred to
            <xref url="../Drafts/edw84.xml?style=printable">ED W
              84</xref>; a newer version of this is available 
from <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Oxford/2006-09-methNet/Materials/catalogue.xhtml"/>.
<note type="action">
              <label>LR</label>
              post to Council a list of elements which contain
                either <name type="macro">macro.glossSeq</name> or <name type="class">model.glossLike</name> in their content
                model, but really should have only <gi>desc</gi>
              <date>2006-09-29</date>
            </note></item>
          <label>DP: post to TEI-OL-SIG about span alone, deferring
            information about the chapter.</label>
          <item>Done</item>
          <label>CW: Remind JW about posting &lt;biblItem&gt;,
            &lt;biblStruct&gt;, and MODS discussion</label>
          <item>CW reports he did so. JW reports he has some notes
            that he will get out to the group this week. 
            <note type="action">
              <label>JW</label>
              Write a document discussing: 1. bibliographic
                elements (<gi>bibl</gi>, <gi>biblFull</gi>,
                <gi>biblItem</gi>, and <gi>biblStruct</gi>) 2. How to
                incorporate MODS into a TEI document 3. his own and
                perhaps others' opinions on <gi>extent</gi>.
              <date>2006-10-01</date>
            </note> He reports that MODS is much more of a cataloging
            approach.</item>
          <label>DB: post draft of ‘guiding principles for further development’ document</label>
          <item>discussion deferred, see <ref target="backCompat">below</ref></item>
          <label>Council: read PB document, post to list even if only "I read
            it, it's fine". </label>
          <item>Not done. Discussion deferred, see <ref target="PB">below</ref>.</item>
          <label>MD: Rewrite the examples MM provides in the PB
            document using a more generic mechanism</label>
          <item>discussion deferred, as MD not present</item>
          <label>DP: review her own manuscript description work to see
            if anything there would be helpful, and report back to
            list</label>
          <item>Discussion deferred, see <ref target="PB">below</ref>.</item>
          <label>MD &amp; DP</label>
          <item>Discussion deferred, see <ref target="PB">below</ref>.</item>
          <label>LB</label>
          <item>Discussion deferred. Note: this item was accomplished,
            DP &amp; MD are now on the <xref url="http://listserv.brown.edu/archives/tei-pb.html">PB
              list</xref> — SB</item>
          <label>MZ: Check whether the monies personography has not
            spent was pre-budgeted, and whether Council reimbursements
            have been processed yet</label>
          <item>discussion deferred as MZ not present</item>
          <label>SB: post to TEI-L, announcing that the deadline for a
            feature request to be considered for P5 1.0 is
            2006-09-01</label>
          <item>SB reports this was done</item>
          <label>Council: come up with a list of elements to be
            considered for execution, and submit as a feature request
            on Sourceforge</label>
          <item>Not discussed. Note: this was not done — SB</item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div n="2">
        <head>WGs</head>
        <div id="PB" n="A">
          <head>PB</head>
          <p>DP reports that her comments were posted to the PB list,
            and that MM replied. DP has been thinking about this,
            thinks LB's response echoes some of her own concerns.
            Consensus is to keep the conversation going, perhaps with
            DP demonstrating her system. It should be pointed out that
            marking up the formula limits processing as compared to an
            abstract representation.</p>
        </div>
        <div n="B">
          <head>PERS</head>
          <p>CW suggests another meeting, but we're unsure of funds.
            <note type="action">
              <label>CW</label>
               ask MD if he is willing to take personography
                forward into places/ontology</note>
            <note type="action">
              <label>CW</label>
              ascertain whether or not
                we have funding for a meeting
            </note>
            There is  some overlap between
              this WG and the planned activities of  the ontology SIG. SR suggests that
            group decide via e-mail whether or not moving forward
            would significantly change the existing work.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="3">
        <head>Document review</head>
        <div id="backCompat" n="A">
          <head>Maintenance</head>
          <p>Consensus that <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001597.html">DB's
              document</xref> is pretty reasonable, and should be
            published. Some suggested that it should be presented in Victoria. <note type="action">
              <label>LB with DB</label>
              revise DB's draft document as a working paper for Council TC W 08
              <date>2006-10-20</date>
            </note>
          </p>
        </div>
        <div n="B">
          <head>TEXT + IMAGE encoding</head>
          <p>Council discussed the <xref url="http://www.rch.uky.edu/image_encoding.html">document</xref>
            recently posted by DP &amp; CT, and then discussed somewhat
            on the list.</p>
          <p>It was generally agreed that the document is divided into
            two parts: <list>
              <item>linking text &amp; image</item>
              <item>incorporating SVG into TEI</item>
            </list> The general feeling was that the first part is
            significant work that requires only a concrete formal
            proposal to be added, a bit more revision before being
            handed to the editors to be folded into the Guidelines
            (either as part of PH or FT).<note type="action">
              <label>DP &amp; CT</label>
              revise document somewhat, with an eye towards what
                parts are intended for Guidelines.
              <date>by MM</date>
            </note></p>
          <p>As for the second part, the consensus was <!-- to reaffirm our
            decision in Kyoto --> that SVG should not be incorporated in the
            TEI Guidelines directly, but that instead a sample ODD
            demonstrating how to do this be made publicly
            available.<!-- note resp="SB">It is my belief that this is the
              same as the position we took in Kyoto, although the minutes
              do not reflect this.</note--></p>
          <p>JW suggests a name other than <name type="attribute">fax</name> for the attribute that
            points to an element's image.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="4">
        <head>Open issues</head>
        <div>
          <head>conformance</head>
          <p>— action still on MZ and JC; LR has points
            he intends to contribute. All Council members should continue to
            contribute to discussion. <note type="action">
              <label>all</label>
              contribute to conformance discussion
              <date>2006-11-15</date>
            </note>
            Will be on agenda for next conference
            call.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="6">
        <head>Other business</head>
        <div>
          <head>feature requests</head>
          <p>Lack of time precluded full discussion of this initial
	  digest. LB asked for Council's endorsement of his
	  provisional prioritization: this was given, modulo some
	  corrections (see appended list). Further topics noted:
 <list>
            <label><gi>extent</gi></label>
            <item>Three uses: how big (for librarians), like
                <gi>biblScope</gi>, or structured data. Action on JW
                (see above) to discuss the issue.</item>
          </list>
<!--          <note type="action">
            <label>SB</label>
              respond to LB comments on SF <xref url="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;atid=644065&amp;aid=1550795&amp;group_id=106328">FR
              on using <name type="class">model.glossLike</name> in &lt;catDesc&gt;</xref>
            <date>2006-10-03</date>
          </note><note type="action">
            <label>all</label>
              Read the SF FR requesting a <xref url="https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&amp;atid=644065&amp;aid=1007370&amp;group_id=106328">new
              element
              &lt;theorem&gt;</xref> and discuss 
              <date>2006-10-04</date>
          </note>-->
          next call 11-22; reports CW to discuss w/ editors, and post to council
        </p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="5">
        <head>Meetings</head>
        <div>
          <head>MM</head>
          <p>As we are out of time, very little discussion of reports
          took place. CW will discuss them with the editors and post
          to the Council.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>next call</head>
          <p>Next conference call is tentatively scheduled for <date value="2006-11-22T12:00Z">Wed 22 Nov 06 at 12:00</date>.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
<div n="6"><head>SF Feature requests</head>

<p>LB had posted to the list a number of items  the following summary
of issues for resolution. The agreed resolution is indicated as
follows:

<list>
<item>
1540221: Add <gi>age</gi> as a child of <gi>person</gi> analogous to <gi>sex</gi>  (YES)
</item>
<item>   1524368: Change content model of <gi>msIdentifier</gi> to reference class
   model.placeLiLike_sequenceoptional  (YES, if  MJD and DB agree)</item>
<item>
   1442353: Add <gi>listPerson</gi> to att.typed class (YES)</item>

<item>   1550795: Change content model of <gi>catDesc</gi> to reference
   model.glossLike (MAYBE, at SB's request)</item>
<item>
   1058736: Add new <gi>stamp</gi> element to MS module analogous to <gi>seal</gi>
   (MAYBE; or generalise?)</item>
<item>
   1007370: Add new <gi>theorem</gi> element as specific kind of <gi>ab</gi> (not clear
   in which module to  put it)  (MAYBE: council requested more information)</item>
<item>
   1551357: Relax the content model of <gi>app</gi> to permit generic <gi>note</gi>
   element as well as or instead of the structured <gi>rdg</gi> <gi>lem</gi>
   pairs. This probably needs a class. (MAYBE)</item>
<item>
   1007369:  Define a set of default values for rend to indicate block
   and numbering options (NO) </item>
</list>
</p></div>


    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>Call ended at 14:06.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
</text>
</TEI.2>