<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TEI Council Conference Call <date value="2006-11-22">22
            Nov 06</date></title>
        <author>Syd Bauman</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <idno type="TEI">TC M 27</idno>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>This electronic file is the source.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>In these minutes times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>The conference call was delayed slightly by some confusion
          over the correct number to call to access the conference
          call. Nonetheless, the meeting started at 12:09 with CT, CW,
          SB, TM, MD, JC, SR, DP, JW, LB, AK, DOD joining us at
          12:10.</p>
        <p>Note that both AC &amp; SS had sent their apologies
          earlier.</p>
        <p>SB volunteered to take notes during the call.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div n="1">
        <head>Minutes from last meeting</head>
        <list type="gloss">
          <label>SB: change French filenames, too</label>
          <item>With some help from Sebastian, this task was completed
            well ahead of schedule</item>
          <label>SB: summarize dating attributes issues
            …</label>
          <item>While the issues were summarized and posted, the
            resulting discussion has moved the issue forward, so a new
            summary with recommendations is in order. We are waiting
            for the results of the <xref url="http://listserv.brown.edu/archives/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0611&amp;L=tei-l&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=10791"><q>does 
                anyone use <gi>minute</gi></q> query on TEI-L</xref>.
            It was suggested that due to the American Thanksgiving
            holiday, we should not consider the query unanswered until
            <date value="2006-12-01">Fri 01 Dec</date>. Thus the
            action is repeated. <note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              summarize issues surrounding dating attributes for
                Council, with firm recommendations where possible,
                including whether or not to keep <gi>minute</gi> et
                al.
              <date>2006-12-06</date>
            </note></item>
          <label>all: consider list of limited phrase elements and
            propose refinements if needed</label>
          <item>SB incorrectly reported this had not been done because
            he had not created the ODD yet.</item>
          <label>SB: Implement ‘limited phrase’ system using the
            elements in the refined version of the list.</label>
          <item>SB reported that this has not been done (<note>see
              <xptr url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001986.html"/></note>). 
          It was suggested that we need a statement of the problem <note type="action">
            <label>LB</label>
            statement of 'limited phrase' problem &amp; some
              possible solutions
            <date>2006-12-18</date>
          </note>
          </item>
          <label>LR: post to Council … elements which contain
            … should have only <gi>desc</gi></label>
          <item>It was determined that this task was completed; see
            <xptr url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001756.html"/><note type="action">
              <label>eds</label>
              implement
              <date>2006-12-10</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>JW: Write up: bibliographic elements, MODS &amp; TEI,
            and opinions on <gi>extent</gi>.</label>
          <item>JW reports that this item has just been completed,
            results posted during call<note type="action">
              <label>all</label>
              read &amp; comment on <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001976.html">JW's 
                  document</xref>
              <date>2006-12-11</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>CW: ask MD if he is willing to take personography
            forward into places/ontology</label>
          <item>MD is willing to continue. He
            is planning a meeting during the 2nd half of January,
            on the assumption that financial resources will be available.</item>
          <label>CW: ascertain level of funding available for the
            meeting</label>
          <item>CW has attempted to do so, and believes the short
            answer is yes, we think we have the necessary
            funding<note type="action">
              <label>DOD</label>
              inform MD how much money is available to
                Council
              <date>2006-11-23</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>LB w/ DB: revise DB's draft document as a working
            paper for Council TC W 08</label>
          <item>This item was completed, but the document is <xref url="http://www.tei-c.org/Council/tcw09.xml">TC 
              W 09</xref> (not 08)</item>
          <label>DP &amp; CT: revise document somewhat, with an eye
            towards what parts are intended for Guidelines.</label>
          <item>Council was informed that more work has been done on
            the document, but the revision is not yet complete and
            thus nothing has been posted yet. DP &amp; CT plan to post
            something tomorrow<note type="action">
              <label>DP &amp; CT</label>
              post revised text &amp; image encoding document to
                Council
              <date>2006-11-27</date>
            </note>
            <note type="action">
              <label>DP &amp; CT</label>
              make ODD of it
              <date>2006-12-11</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>all: contribute to conformance discussion</label>
          <item>lively discussion underway, more to go …</item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div n="2">
        <head>Impressions from MM2006</head>
           <p>There was interesting discussion of <gi>event</gi> element
       at the Ontology SIG in Victoria??. Recommendation that we
          invite someone from Ontology SIG to <soCalled>extension of
          personography</soCalled> meeting.</p>
        <p>DOD reports plans to expand ASIG participation in programme
	for MM2007; e.g. the
          goal is to run a working paper session for which the papers
          would be circulated beforehand, and then be presented at MM
          or to ask SIGs to make a full presentation on a
	topic.</p>
      </div>
      <div n="3">
        <head>Workgroup etc. progress</head>
        <div n="A">
          <head>PB</head>
          <p>MD still needs to rewrite the examples MM provides in the
          PB document using a more generic mechanism (action from 2
          calls ago, repeated here with invented due date: <note type="action">
              <label>MD</label>
              Rewrite the examples MM provides in the PB
                document using a more generic mechanism
              <date>2006-12-31</date>
            </note>)</p>
        </div>
        <div n="B">
          <head>PERS</head>
          <p>Discussed above.</p>
        </div>
        <div n="C">
          <head>I18N</head>
          <p>SR reports he inadvertently sent report to CW instead of
            group; this was corrected during the call, it has now been
            sent <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001979.html">to 
              the list</xref>, but note that the presentation the
            report refers to is <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Oxford/2006-10-victoria/i18n-0.xhtml">really 
              here</xref>. Changes to Roma were reported at MM. The
            question was raised as to whether or not there are
            sufficient funds to permit a 2nd person to proofread
            translations. SR informed council that the intention is
            that monies will be spent by the translators as they see
            fit … they might pay for a proofreader or not.</p>
          <p>The issue of translations of examples was discussed.
          Questions include which examples get put directly into the ODDs,
            which ones are stand-off? Suggestion to have multiple
            examples in various languages in the reference section
            (not the prose). Need to develop infrastructure for
            stating whether an example is a translation of another, or
            an added new example, etc. <note type="action">
              <label>LB</label>
              ponder and post discussion of multilingual example
                problem, particularly with an eye towards whether or
                not the ODD encoding language defined by TD needs to
                be updated
              <date>2006-01-10</date>
            </note>
          </p>
          <p>SR reports that there is also a lot of infrastructure
            work to be done, e.g. formatting multilingual Guidelines
            as PDF.</p>
          <p>The timeline is to have the translations themselves
            completed by Spring, and the entire multilingual project
            including the infrastructure and tying the translations to
            the whole Guidelines by MM2007.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="4">
        <head>Document review and updates</head>
        <div n="A">
          <head>Text and Image encoding</head>
          <p>Discussion of <xref url="http://www.rch.uky.edu/image_encoding.html">CT &amp;
          DP's document</xref> deferred, as it's still being worked on.</p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="5">
        <head>Road to P5</head>
        <div>
          <head>Conformance</head>
          <p>The consensus was to ask JC to summarize discussion so
            far and write a proposal that will eventually become
            replacement for CF<note type="action">
              <label>JC</label>
              summarize discussion of conformance and write a proposal
              <date>2006-01-15</date>
            </note>
          </p>
          </div>
          <div>
            <head>Feature requests on SF</head>
            <p>Status of SF requests document needs to be
              updated. <note type="action">
                <label>eds.</label>
                update doc, report to group when done
                <date>2006-12-15</date>
              </note>
            </p></div>
        </div>
      <div n="6">
        <head>Meetings</head>
        <div>
          <head>Face-to-face</head>
          <p>We're looking at Berlin in late April, perhaps at
            26/27<note type="action">
              <label>all</label>
              let list know if you expect to be
                available for a meeting in Berlin <date value="2007-04-26">Thu 26 &amp; Fri 27 Apr
                  07</date>
              <date>2006-12-06</date>
            </note>
          </p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>next conference call</head>
          <p>DOD reports that although Board discussed other meetings
            at locations that submitted unsuccessful bids for
            MM2007, he does not feel that Council meeting should be
            tied to them.</p>
          <p>CW will be in Taiwan in late Feb 2007.</p>
          <p>Next conference call was scheduled for <date value="2007-01-23">Tue 23 Jan 07 at 12:00</date>.</p>
          <p>SR &amp; DOD will be investigating other teleconferencing systems.
            It was suggested that CW be included in any tests. Both
            Oxford and Indiana have Adobe Breeze set up. JW has used
            it, and reports that at least for a simple presentation it
            is quite good. High-speed conferences.com seems plausible
            — can accept calls from Skype or phone. <note type="action">
              <label>SR</label>
              report on high speed conferences .com system
            </note>
          </p>
        </div>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>Call ended at 13:21.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text>
</TEI.2>