<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 PUBLIC "-//TEI//DTD TEI Lite XML ver. 1//EN" "../Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd">
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TEI Council Conference Call <date value="2006-07-25">25
            Jul 06</date></title>
        <author>Syd Bauman</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <p>For distribution first to Council, then to world via TEI
          website.</p>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>This electronic file is the source.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
	<p>Started at 12:03 with MD, SB, AK, SS, LB, CW, JC, DB, MZ,
	  DP; SR &amp; LR sent apologies prior to the call, and JW had
	  indicated he would likely be unavailable due to a delayed
	  flight.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
        <head>Review of the minutes and action items</head>
        <list type="gloss">
          <label>JC: Update HOWTO to reflect the new structure and
            check that the discussion of SVN procedures introduced in
            it are all correct</label>
          <item>JC reports this was done, but had not been announced
            to Council (until now)</item>
          <label>JC: suggest new file names.</label>
          <item>JC reports this item was done approximately 10 minutes
	    ago. <note type="action"> <label>Council</label> comment
	      on the <soCalled>short names</soCalled> version near the
	      end of JC's post <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001580.html">Possibilities 
		for new file names.</xref> of <date value="2006-07-25T12:37:00+01:00">earlier
		today</date>. </note><note type="action">
	      <label>eds.</label> implement JC's <soCalled>short
		names</soCalled> suggestion unless objections are
	      raised <date>2006-09-01</date> </note></item>
          <label>CT and DP: Come up with a proposed text of how to link texts and images</label>
          <item>DP reports this item is still being worked on<note type="action">
              <label>CT &amp; DP</label>
              Post proposal of how to link texts and images
              <date>2006-09-01</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>SB: See if an similar xpointer has been provided in W3C</label>
          <item>SB reports that CT had completed this item before the
            end of the meeting in Kyoto<note resp="sb">The answer is <q>yes</q>,
              there is already an xpointer scheme for pointing at a
              particular part of an SVG-wrapped image (whether the image
              itself is JPG, PNG, SVG, or whatever). It is the <name type="xpscheme">svgView</name> scheme using the
              <name>viewBox</name> parameter. E.g.
              <code>http://www.picsRus.org/path/to/pic.svg#svgView(viewBox(10,10,640,480))</code>.
              [CT—did I get that right??]</note></item>
          <label>Council must read chapt 14.9.1 p5.</label>
          <item>This item was interpreted to mean that all Council
            members were supposed to have read P5 chapter 14.9.1; only a
            few did. The item was expanded slightly with a new due
            date.<note type="action">
              <label>Council</label>
              Read P5 chapter <xref url="http://www.tei-c.org/P5/Guidelines/SA.html#SASO">14.9 
                  <title>Stand-off Markup</title></xref> and report
                that you've done so to the list. (Even if you have
                nothing particular to say.)
              <date>2006-08-12</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>CW: follow-up on previous request to MM for more prose
            describing the desired goals, the meaning of elements, the
            intended usage, etc.; also perhaps suggest a conference call
            for PB group.</label>
          <item>CW reports MM has sent new material to him, which had
            been forwarded to <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/001526.html">the 
              list</xref> and generated some discussion</item>
          <label>JW and MZ: Look at both dictionaries drama modules, post to list</label>
          <item>This item was interpreted to mean that these modules
            were to be looked at with respect to the class system. MZ
            reports this was done while Council was still in Kyoto.</item>
          <label>DB: Look at TD (documentation elements, aka
            "tagdocs"), post to list.</label>
          <item>DB reports will do this soon<note type="action">
              <label>DB</label>
              Report on TD (documentation elements) with respect
                to the class system, and post to the list.
              <date>2006-08-05</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>LB: motions that the Council identify within a week a
            list of specific items in the current proposals that need to be addressed.</label>
          <item>LB reports this was action has been disposed of [?...??]</item>
          <label>SB: fix <gi>listRef</gi> from <code>ptr*</code> to
            <code>ptr+</code></label>
          <item>SB reports this was completed</item>
          <label>SB: merge <gi>date</gi> and <gi>dateStruct</gi>.
            Same with <gi>timeStruct</gi>?</label>
          <item>SB reports that this was done, but there are still
            questions pending which had been posted and
            generated <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2006/thread.html#1399">some discussion</xref>.
            <note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              Repost a summary of the questions pending, if
                possible with a definitive suggestion which will be
                implemented if no one objects
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>LB: Solution: <name type="macro">macro.xtext</name> doesn't cut it. Needs to be
            reviewed. What, if anything, should replace it?</label>
          <item>This item arose from our discussion in Kyoto of the
            sub-components of <gi>dateStruct</gi> and
            <gi>timeStruct</gi> (in particular, <gi>day</gi>,
            <gi>geog</gi>,
            <gi>hour</gi>,
            <gi>minute</gi>,
            <gi>month</gi>,
            <gi>second</gi>,
            <gi>week</gi>, and
            <gi>year</gi>), each of which currently has content <name type="macro">macro.xtext</name>. It was pointed out in Kyoto that
            this content model is far too limited — it is
            impossible to encode that some letters are supplied in the
            name of the month, e.g. One suggestion was to replace <name type="macro">macro.xtext</name> with <name type="macro">macro.phraseSeq</name>. In Kyoto it was agreed that
            <name type="macro">macro.xtext</name> provided
            insufficient flexibility, but there was some concern that 
            <name type="macro">macro.phraseSeq</name> permitted too
            much. LB agreed to review the situation and report back to
            Council with a recommendation. LB reports that he has since
            changed his mind, and now believes that
            <name type="macro">macro.xtext</name> is sufficient.
            Furthermore, it seems that many on the call believe that
            these elements (except perhaps for <gi>geog</gi>) serve no
            useful purpose. It was suggested that we investigate the
            removal of these and perhaps other elements. (See <ref target="kill">below</ref>.)</item>
          <label>SB: Change <gi>region</gi>, <gi>country</gi> to
            <name type="macro">macro.phraseSeq</name> instead of
            <name type="macro">marcro.paraContent</name></label>
          <item>SB reports this has been completed</item>
          <label>LB: Add <name type="class">model.phrase</name> to
            <xref url="./tcw07.xml?style=printable">TCW07</xref></label>
          <item>LB reports that this was done, and that he posted some
            questions on <date value="2006-06-10">10 Jun</date></item>
          <label>Editors: Improve wording. Where does the personography stuff go?</label>
          <item>LB reports this item is partially done —
            personography has been inserted into into ND (names &amp;
            dates), but it may need to be moved elsewhere, and further
            work on the chapter is needed.</item>
          <label>Editors: Fix manuscript desc modules dependencies on
            names and dates in current architecture</label>
          <item>LB reports this has not been done, but that he has a
            plan for accomplishing it</item>
          <label>Editors: see if there are other interdependencies</label>
          <item>LB reports this has not been completed, but there
            has been discussion on list in this area</item>
          <label>SR: see if there is a way to implement moral dependencies.</label>
          <item>LB reports that some discussion has occured on this
            topic. After some discussion on the issue, the
            general consensus is that we do not need module
            dependency</item>
          <label>SB: find out places were an element is place like and datalike</label>
          <item>SB explained that this item refers to part of the
            <soCalled>header-phrase</soCalled> class project. While
            there has been much discussion about what a reduced
            phrase-level model class would look like, we have not yet
            ascertained where such a class could be used. SB 
            reports that, per his previous post on agenda
            items, this has not yet been done.<note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              find places where a
                <soCalled>header-phrase</soCalled> class would be useful.
              <date>2006-08-08</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>Editors: Make a new class model.setting part contain
            model.pLike ... -rs</label>
          <item>LB reports this was done on <date value="2006-06-12">12 Jun</date></item>
          <label>Editors: make a new class whose only member is <gi>desc</gi>
            that would replace some of the occurrences of <name type="macro">macro.glossSeq</name></label>
          <item>SB explained that this action item arose in Kyoto when
            it was pointed out that there are many content models that
            use the macro <name type="macro">macro.glossSeq</name> or the class <name type="class">model.glossLike</name> where many of the
            permitted elements do not make sense, probably only
            <gi>desc</gi> is desirable. LR was a main proponent of
            this position.<note type="action">
              <label>LR</label>
              Explain where <name type="macro">macro.glossSeq</name> or <name type="class">model.glossLike</name> is not a good idea,
                but <gi>desc</gi> is.
            </note>
          </item> 
          <label>DP: contact the overlap group and give them a report and get
            feedback on span</label>
          <item>DP reports she had been waiting for SB to update NH (the
            multiple hierarchies chapter)
            <note type="action">
              <label>DP</label>
              post to TEI-OL-SIG about span alone, deferring
                information about the chapter
              <date>2006-07-25</date>
            </note></item>
          <label>JW: discuss <gi>biblItem</gi>, <gi>biblStruct</gi>, and MODS</label>
          <item>This has not yet been accomplished. <note type="action">
              <label>CW</label>
              Remind JW about posting <gi>biblItem</gi>,
                <gi>biblStruct</gi>, and MODS discussion.
              <date>ASAP</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <label>DB: draft document of guiding principles for further
            dev of p5</label>
          <item>DB reports he has solicited input from Council, and has started
            work on a document, which is not quite complete
            <note id="principles" type="action">
              <label>DB</label>
              post draft of <soCalled>guiding principles for further
                  development</soCalled> document
              <date>2006-08-01</date>
            </note></item>
          <label>LB: report on Terminology Chapter</label>
          <item>No one can recall what was supposed to be reported on
            for this item, so LB is unsure whether it has been
            accomplished or not. What LB knows about the status of this
            chapter and the editors' opinions can be found in <xref url="./tcw08.xml?style=printable">TC W 08</xref></item>
          <label>LB: Replace the current TEI core module with smaller cores</label>
          <item>It was generally thought this was not an action item
            intended for near-future implementation. Some thought it was
            not truly intended as an action item at all, others that it
            was intended as a post-1.0 item. In either case, it was not
            supposed to have been done, and has not been.</item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Review of WG etc. progress</head>
        <div>
          <head>PB</head>
          <p>MD thinks that Peter Kidd, Richard Gartner, &amp; LB's
            <xref url="http://users.ox.ac.uk/~lou/wip/MS/msodd.htm#MSCOLL">document
              of 1997</xref> may describe a more sensible approach. <note type="action">
              <label>Council</label>
              read <xref url="http://www.ucalgary.ca/~mmcgilli/PB/PBdraft%2014%20July.htm">PB
                  document</xref>, post to list even if only "I read it,
                it's fine"
              <date>2006-08-01</date>
            </note> MD &amp; DP think that the PB draft MM posted
            covers a lot of ground, and that perhaps something
            more general would be better. <note type="action">
              <label>MD</label>
              Rewrite the examples MM provides in the PB
                document using a more generic mechanism
              <date>none</date>
            </note>
            MD also suggests looking at
            Prague's MASTER+.
            <note type="action">
              <label>DP</label>
              review her own manuscript description work to see
                if anything there would be helpful, and report back to list
              <date>2006-09-20</date>
            </note>
            <note type="action">
              <label>MD &amp; DP</label>
              Look at MASTER+ to see if anything there would be
                helpful, and report back to list
              <date>2006-09-20</date>
            </note>
            <note type="action">
              <label>LB</label>
              ask PB group if MD &amp; DP could be
                added to group
            </note>
          </p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>PERS</head>
          <p>MD reports that the personography activity has USD 2500
            in funds allocated but not spent. The group could spend
            some of this money working on places, place names,
            pointing to canonical form of a name (i.e.,
            regularization).<note type="action">
              <label>MZ</label>
              Check whether the monies personography has not
                spent was pre-budgeted, and whether Council
                reimbursements have been processed yet
            </note>
          </p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Towards 1.0 release priorities</head>
        <p>On the issue of a re-write of TC (Critical Apparatus),
	  Council decided we could postpone the re-write until after
	  1.0 if needed, with the idea that if a new mechanism for
	  text-critical markup is introduced, the old one would still
	  kept for compatibility, and thus would not break any
	  existing P5 documents.</p>
        <p>Council discussed the issue of backward compatibility and
          what it means for future releases of the Guidelines. No
          particular decisions were reached, but some of the ideas
          discussed will likely be incorporated into <ref target="principles">the document DB is
            working on</ref>.</p>
        <p>After some discussion, the following general deadlines were
          suggested.
          <note type="action">
            <label>SB</label>
            post to TEI-L, announcing that the deadline for a
              feature request to be considered for P5 1.0 is 2006-09-01
            <date>2006-07-28</date>
          </note>
          <note id="kill" type="action">
            <label>Council</label>
            come up with a list of elements to be
              considered for execution, and submit as a feature
            request on <xref url="http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&amp;group_id=106328&amp;atid=644065">Sourceforge</xref>
            <date>2006-09-01</date>
          </note>
          <note type="action">
            <label>eds.</label>
            class system review and touch-up
            <date>2006-09-01</date>
          <note type="action">
            <label>MZ</label>
            Submit first draft of re-writes of chapters CF
              (conformance) and MD (modifying) to editors
            <date>2006-09-18</date>
          </note>
          </note><note type="action">
            <label>eds.</label>
            survey or <soCalled>triage</soCalled> of feature requests
            <date>2006-09-21</date>
          </note>
        </p>
        <p>It was noted that chapter review is an on going action, and
          won't be finished until everything is finished</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Other business</head>
        <p>No other major items were brought up for Council's
          consideration.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Meetings</head>
        <p>Next telephone conference call is scheduled for <date value="2006-09-27T12:00:00Z">Wed 27 Sep 06 at 12:00</date>.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>Wrapped up at 13:28.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text>
</TEI.2>