<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://www.tei-c.org/Stylesheets/teixlite.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 PUBLIC "-//TEI//DTD TEI Lite XML ver. 1//EN" "../Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd">
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TEI Council Conference Call <date value="2006-04-25">25 Apr 06</date></title>
        <author>Syd Bauman</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <idno type="TEI">TC M 23</idno>
        <availability>
          <p>For distribution first to Council, then to world via TEI
            website.</p>
        </availability>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>This electronic file is the source.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>Times are UTC unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>Started at 12:07 with SB, DB, LB, JC, MD, SR, SS JW, CW,
          and MZ present. CT had sent mail stating he was ill and
          could not attend; AB sent mail as call was supposed to start
          stating not only would he not be present, but that he was
          resigning from Council. <!--DP and LR were AWOL.--></p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
        <head>Previous Minutes</head>
        <list>
          <item><label>LB: Ensure [JC's <xref url="./tcw06.xml?style=printable">P5 HOWTO</xref>] is
              easily accessible from P5 portion of website</label> LB
            reports done. Editors &amp; SR reported that subsequent
	    to moving from use of 
             CVS to use of Subversion (SVN) as content management
	     system at
            Sourceforge, we are in the process of reorganizing the
	    file structure, chiefly to facilitate the inclusion of
	    internationalized version of the Guidelines.
            <note type="action">
              <label>eds.</label>Resolve remaining unresolved issues
	      about new file organization at Sourceforge asap, and report
	      on status at Kyoto Council meeting
            </note><note type="action">
              <label>JC</label>
              update <xref url="./tcw06.xml?style=printable">HOWTO</xref> to
                reflect the new structure and check that the
		discussion of SVN procedures introduced in it are all correct.
              <date>as soon as structure decided</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <item><label>All: Review <xref url="http://www3.iath.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2005/001163.html">SO 
                Outputs</xref></label> Council agreed that SO outputs contain a lot of good, useful stuff,
            much of which needs to be migrated to the
            Guidelines. Some of the material had been already
	    incorporated but not yet fully reviewed; other parts it
	    was felt would need a fuller technical discussion. One item discussed at some length on the
            call was the suggestion to use elements from the SVG
	    namespace as the content of
            <gi>figure</gi><note type="action">
              <label>SB</label>
              update his report on  SO output
                documents <xptr url="http://www3.iath.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2005/001163.html"/> to include recommended dispositions, as a working paper for discussion in Kyoto.
              <date>2006-05-08</date>
            </note>
          </item>
          <item><label>CT or DP: post to TEI-MS-SIG or TEI-L
              requesting input</label> DT &amp; CT both absent, so
            discussion of this item was deferred</item>
          <item><label>CW w/ LB's help: create list of modules needing
              <soCalled>class</soCalled> attention</label> CW reports
            this action has been completed</item>
          <item><label>CW: assign modules to Council members</label>
            CW reports this action has been completed; LB had posted <xref url="./tcw07.xml"> a summary of input received so far
	    together with suggested dispositions</xref>, to be
	  reviewed later on the agenda.</item>
          <item><label>SB: post a pointer to the minutes of [DLF-TEI]
              meeting</label> SB reported DLF's minutes not yet
	      available, but expected later this week.</item>
          <item><label>SB: bundle up 0.3.1 for oXygen</label> SB
            reports that this item was accomplished almost immediately
            — it was easier than anticipated, as SyncRO Soft was
            able to do much of it themselves. Thus oXygen 7.1 comes
            with TEI 0.3.1.</item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Physical Bibliography Workgroup</head>
        <p>LB expressed concern that the chair of this workgroup
	appeared to be working in isolation, with only  a few comments
          from JF appearing on the list. The material posted was of a
	  very specialist nature, reflecting the expertise of the  PB
	  group, but seemed to lack input from TEI  experts. <note type="action">
            <label>all</label>
            review <xref url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/PB/index.xml?style=printable">PB 
                documents</xref>, and post thoughts (even if only
              "looks fine to me") to Council list.
            <date>2006-05-16</date>
          </note>Such expertise was certainly present in the
	  membership of the Group, but perhaps needed some
	  encouragement to discuss Murray's proposals in terms of
	  how they might relate to the rest of the TEI scheme. Concern
	  was expressed that the work had been inadequately publicized.
          <note type="action">
            <label>CW</label>
            follow-up on previous request to MM for more prose
              describing the desired goals, the meaning of elements,
              the intended usage, etc.; also perhaps suggest a
              conference call for PB group
            <date>2006-05-02</date>
          </note>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Personography</head>
        <p>MD reported that a meeting to discuss the <xref url="../Activities/PERS/persw02.xml"> working
	paper</xref> prepared by Eva-Wedervang-Jensen will meet in Oxford in two day's time.
          He is hoping to have a report, perhaps even with a concrete
          proposal, available for Council to consider in Kyoto.</p>
        <p>Attending this meeting will be<list>
            <item>Gabriel Bodard, CCH, King's</item>
            <item>John Bradley, CCH, King's</item>
            <item>Lou Burnard, OUCS</item>
            <item>Charles Crowther, Classics, Oxford</item>
            <item>James Cummings, OUCS</item>
            <item>Matthew Driscoll, Arnamagnæan Institute</item>
            <item>Elaine Matthews, Classics, Oxford</item>
            <item>Fiona Oliver, Ministry for Culture and Heritage, NZ</item>
            <item>Sebastian Rahtz, OUCS</item>
            <item>Paul Spence, CCH, King's</item>
            <item>Eva Wedervang-Jensen, Arnamagnæan Institute</item>
          </list> Council is grieved to hear that Charlotte Roueché
          (Byzantine and Modern Greek, King's) will not be able to
          attend due to a recent injury, and wishes her a speedy
          recovery.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Class Struggle</head>
        <p>Council reviewed <xref url="http://www.tei-c.org/Council/tcw07.xml?style=printable">TC 
            W 07</xref>. This summarizes  issues raised by
          individual <soCalled>reviewers</soCalled> of modules,
	  together with suggested dispositions provided by the
	editors. It was noted that this document did not include comments made by SS and DP on the
          transcription module, which had not been received; also that
	  some of the modules assigned had not yet been commented on.
<note type="action">
            <label>SS</label>
            post comments from DP and SS on the transcription module to list
            <date>12:57:01</date>
          </note>
        </p>
        <p>Reviewing outstanding modules, the following assignments
	were agreed:          <note type="action">
            <label>JW &amp; MZ</label>
            Look at both dictionaries &amp; drama modules, post
              to list
            <date>2006-05-02</date>
          </note><note type="action">
            <label>DB</label>
            Look at TD (documentation elements, aka
              <soCalled>tagdocs</soCalled>), post to list
            <date>2006-05-02</date>
          </note><note type="action">
            <label>DB &amp; MD</label>
            Look at ND (names &amp; dates), after personography
              meeting, post to list
            <date>2006-05-09</date>
          </note>
        </p>
<p>LB agreed to incorporate this material into the document as soon as
it was received. Council was requested to consider two major issues
raised so far: the need for a class representing a simpler subset
          of phrase-level elements for use in the header and other
          meta-data-like places; the need for a class similar to the
	  existing att.Spanning for use in all cases where
	  "Horse-like" markup was proposed. </p>
<note type="action">
            <label>SB</label>
            Develop proposal for a new class of  phrase level elements
              for use in the content model of  elements (e.g. those that only occur in
              <gi>teiHeader</gi>) which represent metadata rather than
	      the full complexity of document markup, for further
	      discussion in Kyoto
            <date>2006-05-18</date>
          </note>
        <p>It was agreed that the att.Spanning class should be used
	for all cases of cross-structure pointing, but noted that the
	present proposal (used only in the <gi>index</gi> element)
	needed further development.</p>
        <p>Because it involved a decision made by the <soCalled>class
            subcommittee</soCalled> at its Oxford meeting 2005-09, the
          question of where <gi>note</gi> should be allowed, recently
          raised on TEI-L by Espen Ore, was briefly discussed. It
          seems we need to revisit the decision the class subcommittee
          made in Oxford. At least two separate questions need to be
          considered: <list>
            <item>should <gi>foreign</gi> have <ident type="class">model.phraseSeq</ident> as its content,
              and</item>
            <item>should <gi>note</gi> be in <ident type="class">model.phraseSeq</ident></item></list>. LB
          reminded Council briefly of the  rationale for the former
	decision and offered to post to TEI-L in  response to John
	Young's query on TEI-L.</p>
<p>In answer to a query from SB, LB explained that <gi>g</gi> was
needed within <gi>c</gi> since the latter referred to a lexical
character which might be represented as a combination of Unicode and
non-unicode characters.</p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Meeting in Kyoto</head>
        <p>We will be meeting at the Kyoto International Community
          House, which is 2-3 subway stops from the hotels at which we
          will be staying. We will be housed in two separate hotels
          near to each other, as there was not enough room in any one
          hotel.</p>
        <p>Council thanks CW and his colleagues for organizing the
	meeting.
</p>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div>
        <p>Council issues a <q>get well soon</q> to the feverish CT.</p>
        <p>Call ended at 13:19.</p>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text>
</TEI.2>