<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.tei-c.org/cms/system/modules/org.tei.www/_common/schemas/teilite.rnc" type="compact"?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" rend="nospilt">
  
   <teiHeader>
      <fileDesc>
      
         <titleStmt>
        
            <title>TEI Council Meeting <date when="2007-09-25">23 October
            2007</date>
            </title>
        
            <author>James Cummings</author>
      
         </titleStmt>
      
         <publicationStmt>
            <availability>
               <p>Licensed under <ptr target="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/uk/"/>
               </p>
            </availability>
         </publicationStmt>
      
         <sourceDesc>
        
            <p>Notes transcribed from hand minutes</p>
      
         </sourceDesc>
    
      </fileDesc>
      <revisionDesc>
         <change when="2007-10-27"><date>27 October 2007</date>
            <label>Chris Ruotolo</label> Converted to P5
         </change>
         <change when="2007-10-23" who="author">
            <p>
               <name>James Cummings</name>creation</p>
         </change>
      </revisionDesc>
   </teiHeader>
  
   <text>
    
      <front>
      
         <div>
        
            <p>The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on
          Tuesday 23 October at 12:00 UTC.</p>
        
            <p>
               <label>Participants:</label> Arianna Ciula (AC), Syd Bauman
          (SB), Lou Burnard (LB), James Cummings (Minutes; JC), Matthew
          Driscoll (MD), Dan O'Donnell (DO), Dot Porter (DP), 
		Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary
          (LR), Conal Tuohy (CT), John Walsh (JW), and Christian
          Wittern (Chair;CW).</p>
        
            <p>Council members unable to participate: David Birnbaum (DB),
          and Tone Merete Bruvik (TMB).</p>
      
         </div>
    
      </front>
    
      <body>
      
         <div>
        
            <head>Open action items</head>
        
            <p>CW reviewed the action items from the previous minutes.
            <hi>All action items must be completed by 2007-10-26 12:00
            UTC unless otherwise noted.</hi>
          
               <list type="gloss">
            
                  <head>Action items</head>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>LB</emph> contact workgroup participants and
              others who have helped on P5 to check spelling of names
              and current affiliations. 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item> LB reported on work done on AB and FM1 and that FM1
              would change to become more of an acknowledgements
              section. He would point Council at new drafts of this
              material in the next few days. <note type="action" anchored="true">
                        <label>LB</label> Point Council to new drafts of
                AB/FM1/etc. <date>2007-10-25</date>
                     </note>
            
                  </item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>JW</emph> to provide additional e.g.s and read
              through existing ones in rendition 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item>JW reported that this had been completed.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>ALL</emph> read through the proposed list of
              rendition attribute values and provide feedback to LB
              2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item>LB reported that he had received no comments and
              taken this as assent. CT mentioned that he felt the
              suggested @scheme values were appropriate.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>SB</emph> to finish revisions of NH by end of
              month 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item>Discussion of NH postponed until later in the
              agenda.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>All</emph> review NH, which has yet to be read in
              its new form by anybody other than the authors
              2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item>Discussion of NH postponed until later in the
              agenda.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>ALL</emph> Report any last minute major
              suggestions for changes to web design (if you absolutely
              must) to JC and DP 2007-09-28 </label>
            
                  <item>Discussion of Guidelines Formatting postponed until
              later in the agenda.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>JC, DP</emph> Begin integration process with main
              site with Chris Ruotolo (ongoing) </label>
            
                  <item>Discussion of Guidelines Formatting postponed until
              later in the agenda.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>DO </emph> Facilitate communication between the
              two web teams 2007-09-25 </label>
            
                  <item>Discussion of Guidelines Formatting postponed until
              later in the agenda.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>LB </emph> Expand explanatory prose in USE
              concerning which elements are mandatory and how a user
              can know this as Arianna described it in her email
              today. 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item>LB reported that he had still to do this and it
              would be done today.<note type="action" anchored="true">
                        <label>LB</label> Expand explanatory prose in USE
                concerning which elements are mandatory and how a user
                can know this as Arianna described it in her email
                today. <date>2007-10-23</date>
                     </note>
            
                  </item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>SB </emph> read and comment if nec. on solution to
              mode attribute on <gi>classes</gi>. 2007-10-10 </label>
            
                  <item> SB reported that this had been completed.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>LB</emph> deal with
              <gi>hand</gi>/<gi>handDesc</gi> issue in MS 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item>LB reported that he believed this had been done.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>CW</emph> contact CT and discover status of PH </label>
            
                  <item> CW reported that this had been done.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>CW</emph> contact DB and discover status of ND </label>
            
                  <item> CW reported that this had been done.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>DP</emph> finish review of CO 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item> DP reported that she had not entirely finished
              this, but that she would do so today.<note type="action" anchored="true">
                        <label>DP</label> Finish review of CO and submit
                comments to editors <date>2007-10-24</date>
                     </note>
            
                  </item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>CW</emph> contact JC and discover status of DS </label>
            
                  <item> CW reported that he had done this, and that JC had
              already finished his review and submitted notes to the
              editors.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>JW</emph> complete review of SA 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item>JW reported that he had not completed this yet and
              he would do so in the next day or two.<note type="action" anchored="true">
                        <label>JW</label> Complete review of SA
                and submit comments to editors
              <date>2007-10-25</date>
                     </note>
            
                  </item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>JW</emph> complete review of AI 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item> JW reported that he had not completed this yet and
              he would do so in the next day or two.<note type="action" anchored="true">
                        <label>JW</label> Complete review of AI
                and submit comments to editors
              <date>2007-10-25</date>
                     </note>
            
                  </item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>LR</emph> complete review of FD 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item> LR reported that he had completed this.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>SR</emph> complete review of DI 2007-09-30 </label>
            
                  <item> SR reported that he had not only completed this but
              had made the corrections in the source.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>DP</emph> Compare Reading List and Works Cited and
              remove duplicates from the Reading List. 2007-10-15 </label>
            
                  <item>DP reported that she had delayed on this until the
              bibliographic descriptions were reformatted. She will
              now progress. LB offered to liaise with her concerning
              the needed rationalization.<note type="action" anchored="true">
                        <label>DP
                  (&amp; LB)</label> Rationalize Reading List and
                Works Cited removing
              duplicates<date>2007-10-26</date>
                     </note>
            
                  </item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>LR</emph> Convert Reading List to StructBibl
              2007-10-15 </label>
            
                  <item> LB reported that this had been done, though there
              was some disagreement over handling of
              <gi>relatedItem</gi>
                  </item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>AC</emph> Finish extracting sources for list of
              sources for examples 2007-10-15 </label>
            
                  <item> It was reported that this had been completed.</item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>SR</emph> Connect sources of examples bibliography
              to examples in text 2007-10-15 </label>
            
                  <item> SR reported that this had been completed. </item>
            
                  <label>
              
                     <emph>SR/LB</emph> Convert <gi>bibl</gi> in the text of
              the guidelines to <gi>ref</gi> pointing at the works
              cited list 2007-10-15 </label>
            
                  <item>LB reported that had been completed, and in
              summarizing other work on the Bibliography noted that
              there several instances of examples which he believed
              were not fabricated but for which he could not find a
              source and that these should be investigated/changed at
              some future date.</item>
          
               </list>
        
            </p>

        
            <div>
          
               <head>State of NH</head>
          
               <p>DO summarised the work done on NH and what he felt the
            main issues were. This was followed by a far-ranging
            discussion on the intricacies of overlap and especially
            its relation to TEI Conformance. Although there was some
            disagreement, Council sentiment was generally that the TEI
            should not recommend non-Conformant methods of encoding
            and thus the discussion of HORSE should be further
            relegated to make it clear that there are these non-TEI
            and even non-XML ways to deal with this, but that they do
            not result in TEI Conformant documents. DO is to rewrite
            some portions concentrating on their relation to
            Conformance and avoiding pollution of the TEI namespace in
            all examples. <note type="action" anchored="true">
                     <label>DO</label>
              Rewrite some prose and examples of NH with TEI
              Conformance and pollution of TEI Namespace in mind.
                <date>2007-10-25</date>
                  </note>
          
               </p>
        
            </div>
      
         </div>

      
         <div>
        
            <head>Reports</head>

        
            <div>
          
               <head>State of P5</head>
          
               <p>LB reported on the changes that have been done recently
            to the source as well as some he wished to make
            immediately but which would result in significant changes
            to the schema. These included: <list type="ordered">
              
                     <item>The reinstating of the @generate attribute on
                  <gi>schemaSpec</gi>: Council approved this.</item>
              
                     <item>The removal of @xml:space from att.global, and its
                addition to a new class. @xml:space is contrary, in
                some ways to the TEI way of doing things and perhaps
                should be mentioned as deprecated in the TEI
                Guidelines. Council approved the creation of the new
                class and that at minimum <gi>eg</gi> and
                <gi>egXML</gi> should be members. <note type="action" anchored="true">
                           <label>LB</label> Create a class for xml:space
                  with <gi>eg</gi> and <gi>egXML</gi> as members, and
                  note that it is not globally available in the TEI
                  scheme. <date>2007-10-26</date>
                        </note>
                     </item>
              
                     <item>The removal of @xml:base from att.global and its
              addition to att.global.linking, thus it only appears as
              a global element when the linking module is
              selected. Council did not approve this, observing that
              it was useful for e.g. facsimiles even without the
              linking module . <note type="action" anchored="true">
                           <label>LB</label>
              Leave @xml:base as
              is. <date>2007-10-26</date>
                        </note>
                     </item>
              
                     <item>The adding of a new element for boundary marking
                to deal with the NH-related problems raised in earlier
                discussion. Council did not approve this and suggested
                that it be reconsidered for P5 1.1</item>
              
                     <item>That an @xsi:schemaLocation in the W3C xsi
                namespace be added to <gi>TEI</gi> on the generation
                of schemas by ODD processors. Although it was agreed
                this was a bad mechanism chosen by the W3C, it was
                felt that it should be supported and documented in IM.
                  <note type="action" anchored="true">
                           <label>SR</label> Add
                  @xsi:schemaLocation to all schemas generated by Roma
                  and document that an ODD processor has the option of
                  doing this in IM.
              <date>2007-10-24</date>
                        </note>
                     </item>
            
                  </list> LB continued to report that he had dozens of egs
            in MS for which he didn't have accurate bibliographic
            information. <note type="action" anchored="true">
                     <label>MD</label> Furnish
              LB with appropriate bibliographic references for 
              examples in MS.
                <date>2007-10-26</date>
                  </note>
          
               </p>
          
               <p>LB noted the IPR problem with respect to the PH chapter.
            That is, that he has illegally used scans of photographs
            which we do not have copyright permission to use, and
            especially not distribute under a GPL licence. LB noted
            that he was sourcing some images from the Robert Graves'
            Diary project, but others would be welcome. SB noted that
            he might have some images that are suitable which we could
            freely use and redistribute under GPL. <note type="action" anchored="true">
                     <label>SB</label> Furnish LB with appropriate image
              for use as examples in PH.
            <date>2007-10-25</date>
                  </note>
               </p>
          
               <p>LB continued to note that SA was getting long as a
            chapter and was in need of a good spring clean, but that
            this might have to wait for P5 1.1</p>
        
            </div>


        
            <div>
          
               <head>Guidelines Formatting and Web Design</head>
          
               <p>DO reported on the problems with regard to a slow server
            (to be replaced) at Virginia as explanation why the full
            TEI-C new website was not live. JC and SR reported on the
            formatting of the Guidelines and that this had now been
            merged as cleanly as possible with the TEI-C web design.
            SR noted that, although a readable one is available now,
            the proper PDF rendition will probably not be available
            until January. Council agreed that print versions were not
            the priority, but SR also reminded them that the HTML
            version of the Guidelines had a CSS stylesheet for print
            as well (which removes much of the navigation) which look
            fairly good in print.</p>
        
            </div>
      
         </div>

      
         <div>
        
            <head>Other Business</head>
        
            <p>DO requested that anyone who considered they would be
	unable to finish their assigned tasks should notify the Council
          list by Friday. JC further suggested that all Council
          members report on all action items by Friday at 12:00 UTC.
            <note type="action" anchored="true">
                  <label>ALL</label> Report to council
            list on progress of all of your action items by 2007-10-26
            12:00 UTC, noting especially if you don't think you will
            complete them.<date>2007-10-26</date>
               </note>
        
            </p>
        
            <p>LB thanked all members of council, past and present, who
          had worked so hard to bring TEI P5 to fruition; 
          their hard work and dedication to the task of this major
          revision of the Guidelines was much appreciated.</p>
      
         </div>


      
         <div>
        
            <head>Next Meeting</head>
        
            <p>The next teleconference was not scheduled, but many Council
          members will be attending the TEI Members' Meeting in
          Maryland.
          <!--
          CW will put up a
          meetomatic survey to determine the best date. It will,
          however be at 12:00 noon UTC. This will be:<lb/> 06:00 MDT
          in Calgary,<lb/> 07:00 CDT in Chicago,<lb/> 08:00 EDT in New
          York,<lb/> 13:00 BST in London,<lb/> 14:00 CEST in
          Paris,<lb/> 21:00 JST in Kyoto, and<lb/> 00:00 NZST in Wellington.<lb/>
          <note type="action">
            <label>CW</label> CW to set date for next meeting using
            meetomatic, and announce. <date>2007-09-30</date>
          </note>
          -->
        </p>
      
         </div>

    
      </body>
  
   </text>

</TEI>