<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI.2 rend="nospilt">
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TEI Council Meeting <date>2 August 2007</date></title>
        <author>James Cummings</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <idno type="TEI">TC M 33</idno>
        <availability>
          <p>Freely available via TEI website.</p>
        </availability>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>Notes taken directly into TEI XML</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
    <revisionDesc>
      <change>
        <date value="2007-08-02"/>
        <respStmt>
          <name>James</name>
          <resp>editor</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <item>creation</item>
      </change>
    </revisionDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Thursday 2 August at 12:00 UTC.</p>
        <p>Participants: Syd Bauman (SB), David Birnbaum (DB), Tone Merete Bruvik (TMB), Lou Burnard
          (LB), James Cummings (Minutes;JC), Matthew Driscoll (MD), Dan O'Donnel (DO), Sebastian
          Rahtz (SR), Conal Tuohy (CT), John Walsh (JW), and Christian Wittern (Chair;CW).</p>
        <p>Council members unable to participate: Arianna Ciula (AC), Laurent Romary (LR), Dot
          Porter (DP). </p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div>
        <head>Open action items</head>
        <p>CW reviewed the action items from the previous minutes. <list type="gloss">
            <label><hi>Eds</hi> Implement Board decision with regard to title page. 2007-07-20</label>
            <item>Still to do: <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Implement Board decision with regard to title page.
                  <date>2007-08-15</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>CW</hi> Draft list of workgroups and their members for editors. 2007-08-01</label>
            <item>Done; LB to edit and integrate. <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Integrate list of workgroups and members into Guidelines.
                  <date>2007-09-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>SB</hi> move &lt;postscript&gt; to a free standing ODD. 2007-08-01</label>
            <item>SB reported this had been done. <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> Integrate &lt;postscript&gt; ODD into Guidelines. <date>2007-08-04</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>SB</hi> Post reminder of the current  &lt;div&gt; problems to council list.
              2007-07-20</label>
            <item> SB reported this had been done, and after discussion problems fixed in ODD. No
              actions arising. </item>
            <label><hi>JW</hi> Rewrite rendition recommendations and evaluate whether possible for
              P5 1.0 2007-08-01</label>
            <item> JW (who arrived just before this item) reported that he sent out a revised
              recommendation the previous night. Most of council had read this, and JW summarised it
              briefly before council voting unanimously to include it in P5 1.0. LB/JW tasked with
              integrating it into the Guidelines. <note type="action">
                <label>LB/JW</label> Integrate revised rendition recommendations into Guidelines.
                  <date>2007-09-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>LB</hi> Prepare the ground for changes to rendition/@rend/@rendRef in P5 1.1
              if JW's recommendations are unable to be included in P5 1.0 2007-08-01</label>
            <item>LB will do this as part of the above action item.</item>
            <label><hi>LB, CT, DP (and ALL)</hi> Discuss work on facsimile markup on council
              list. 2007-07-24</label>
            <item>There has been much discussion on the Council list and the Council agreed that
              this needed to make it into P5 1.0 in some form. </item>
            <label><hi>LB, CT, DP</hi> Hammer out final P5 1.0 draft of facsimile markup. 2007-08-01</label>
            <item> CT summarised the most recent proposal for council. Linking with @corresp was
              discussed and both CT and LB wish a more specific attribute. LB/CT to continue work on
              this (discussing where appropriate on Council list)
	      until 15 August. LB asked whether the idea was to
	      produce an entirely new module or expand an existing
	      one. His view was this material might well be located in the
              transcription of primary sources module; there was
	      general agreement to this. It was agreed that there should be a
              simple system that is easy to use, but that this must scale well. SR had concerns about what units are used
              for the @coords attribute and how this related to the surface element. CT explained
              that the proposal has been significantly shortened and
	      simplified. He will
              re-encode the old examples to validate against the new draft so that it will be
              clearer for people to understand. Council was supportive of the work, and agreed that
              this should in some form make it into P5 1.0.<note type="action">
                <label>CT</label> Re-implement the earlier facsimile examples in most recent
                proposal.<date>2007-08-15</date>
              </note><note type="action">
                <label>LB, CT, DP</label> Produce  P5 1.0 Draft of facsimile markup based on
                Council discussion and integrate with Guidelines. <date>2007-09-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>SB</hi> Make concrete proposal with regard to merging of Corpus chapter into
              DS or teiCorpus/teiGroup. 2007-07-20</label>
            <item> SB reports that he hasn't done this and queried its due date. DO suggested that we
              should let this go, and SR and others concurred. This will be postponed until P5 1.1.
              It was suggested that any new significant technical revisions that occur to Council
              members during their revisions should be filed in Trac for later consideration as part
              of P5 1.1. <note type="action">
                <label>All</label> Any new significant technical revisions not already under
                consideration by Council should be added to trac for P5 1.1 to keep track of these
                ideas as they occur to us in P5 1.0 revisions. <date>ongoing</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>LB</hi> Implement any council-approved recommendations concerning the merging
              of Corpus into DS. 2007-08-01</label>
            <item>Postponed for further consideration P5 1.1. No actions arising. </item>
            <label><hi>DB, TMB, SB, LB</hi> Review prose of NH and discuss on council list from 1
              August, providing rewritten chapter by mid August. 2007-08-15</label>
            <item>SB suggests delaying the due date until 2007-09-01. LB reconfirmed that revisions
              to this chapter would not mean that it would define a new module or significantly
              alter existing modules. <note type="action">
                <label>DB, TMB, SB, LB</label> Rewrite NH chapter as needed. <date>2007-09-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>LR</hi> Provide any further changes to Dictionary chapter in light of
              discussion and submit to Eds. 2007-08-1</label>
            <item>It was reported that revisions to the Dictionary chapter have been made and that
              this action is now closed. However, it was noted that Council may wish to reassess
              certain aspects of the chapter at P5 1.1. <note type="action">
                <label>Eds</label>Editors to integrate final Dictionary revisions into Guidelines,
                checking language, etc. <date>2007-09-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>LB</hi> To continue to encourage community feedback (on Persons, Places,
              Names and Dates) until 2007-07-27</label>
            <item> It was reported that this was done, and although comments were received, the
              draft was generally well-thought of by the community.</item>
            <label><hi>LB</hi> Revise person/places draft with regard to TEI Community comment,
              announce final draft version on mailing list. 2007-08-01</label>
            <item> LB reported that this had been completed and the draft was already revised and
              integrated with the Guidelines. No actions arising. </item>
            <label><hi>LB</hi> Report back to council on any changes to FSD/FS and if necessary
              rationalise the TEI version. 2007-08-15</label>
            <item> LB reported that there had been no progress so far because the ISO meeting had
              not yet taken place. LB will report on the meeting when it happens.<note type="action">
                <label>LB </label>Report back to council on any changes to FSD/FS and if necessary
                rationalise the TEI version. <date>2007-09-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>LB</hi> Revise add/del/supplied issues.  2007-08-01</label>
            <item> LB had posted a summary of some of the issues; DO had offered to produce a new draft integrating these
              with his own ideas for discussion on the list.<note type="action">
                <label>DO</label> Produce revised proposal about what to do with
                add/del/supplied/edInt/etc. issues <date>2007-08-21</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>ALL</label> Comment on revised add/del/supplied draft on Council mailing
                list. <date>2007-08-25</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Integrate add/del/supplied revisions (after Council input) to the
                Guidelines <date>2007-09-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>JC, DP</hi> Report back to council on progress of formatting of the
              Guidelines so far and any outstanding issues 2007-08-03</label>
            <item>JC will be emailing council in the next couple days
              to give an update on progress with this item and issues arrising. <note type="action">
                <label>JC, DP</label>Report back to council on progress of formatting of the
                Guidelines so far and any outstanding issues <date>2007-08-06</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>JC, DP</hi> All issues should be resolved and/or reported to Sebastian and/or
              Council 2007-09-07</label>
            <item>This item is not due yet and is in progress. <note type="action">
                <label>JC, DP</label>All issues should be resolved and/or reported to Sebastian
                and/or Council <date>2007-09-07</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>DO</hi> Report back to Council with proposal for any changes to app/rdg
              2007-07-20</label>
            <item>DO had reported on this issue. With SB's assistance,
	     DO will work on an ODD and see if the
              proposals break anything. <note type="action">
                <label>DO, SB</label> Produce revised proposal about what to do with app/rdg issues
                  <date>2007-08-21</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>ALL</label> Comment on revised app/rdg draft on Council mailing list.
                  <date>2007-08-25</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> Integrate revisions (after Council input) to the Guidelines
                  <date>2007-09-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label><hi>SB</hi> to finalise new  &lt;said&gt; element and add to guidelines.
              2007-08-01</label>
            <item>SB reported that this had been done. </item>
            <label><hi>ALL</hi> Provide comments on DB's proposals for modelling stemmata.
              2007-07-20</label>
            <item> Council had provided comments on this on the mailing list. DB summarised some of
              them, and suggested that using modifications as suggested by CT/JC with regard to
              linking and AC with regard to relation to indicate contamination. LB to test an
              implementation by 2007-09-01<note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Integrate changes necessary for a working implementation for
                modelling of manuscript stemmata, as proposed on council list.
                <date>2007-09-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
          </list>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Sorting out handDesc vs handList</head>
        <p>There was a fair bit of discussion concerning this. MD suggested killing off one or the
          other. LB felt that handDesc was general whereas handList is a structured list of hands.
          There was contention of hand vs handNote with the suggestion from MD that one of these
          could do the job of the other just as well. Various options and differences were
          discussed. It was agreed that handNote and hand should be
	  merged and that  handDesc should include handList or p. LB agreed to swiftly implement this. <note type="action"
            ><label>LB</label>Implement rationalisation of handDesc/handList/hand, removing handNote
              <date>2007-08-08</date></note></p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Timetable</head>
        <p>CW presented a  timetable proposed by the planning subcommittee. The overall
          timetable for this is: <list type="gloss">
            <label>4 August</label>
            <item>Feature freeze (more or less)</item>
            <label>4 August - 7 September</label>
            <item>Final integration of last proposed items (e.g. facsimile) in chapters and review
              (see below)</item>
            <label>11 September - 16 September</label>
            <item>final council review sessions we will put the chapters to vote 1 by 1</item>
            <label>15 September - 19 October</label>
            <item>All text locked for single master edit, assigned to Lou</item>
            <label>15 September - 19 October</label>
            <item>All final decisions about layout, publication, web site, assigned to Syd</item>
            <label>20 - 30 October</label>
            <item>Implementation of publications, based on Syd's
            decisions, assigned to Sebastian</item> </list> There was
            a fair bit of discussion concerning the locking of the
            text for single master edit and the assigning of this to a
            single editor for the period of 15 September - 19
            October. SB felt that this undermined the point of having
            two editors. The planning subcommittee had proposed this
            partly to reduce the overhead of cross-atlantic editing;
            partly to put more effort into resolving publication
            issues, whether online or otherwise.  JC mentioned that in
            open source software projects it was common practice for
            a lead developer to lock the code shortly before release,
            so as to deter a barrage of possibly conflicting edits at
            the last moment. By the
            time this happens the text should basically be fixed, and
            what should be submitted to LB are bug reports, typos and
            places where minor rephrasing is needed. No major editing
            should be taking place. </p>
        <p>Details of the chapter triage are at
	http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/wiki/Review. 
The chapter review task is as follows: Read the chapter again
          and fix anything which looks wrong,  in one of two ways:<list>
            <item> writing replacement lines/paragraphs/sections and
            sending them to LB</item>
            <item>editing the source ODD file in situ, if you are sure you know what you are doing,
              and resubmitting to Subversion.</item>
          </list> What is expressly not allowed is to say "this section looks wrong, it needs a
          rewrite". This is only acceptable <hi>in extremis</hi>. If you edit the ODD, you should be careful to work in a way which allows someone else to see the differences.
          Proposals for major (schema) changes should be recorded in
	trac for P5 1.1.</p>
<p> In
          the trac list for review, the last column has more ? if the chapter is deemed to have more
          work to do, and a * if it is regarded as of major importance. <note type="action">
            <label>ALL</label> Review chapters and correct mistakes as per
            http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/wiki/Review from <date>2007-08-04 until 2007-09-07</date>
          </note></p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <head>Next Meeting</head>
        <p>The next teleconference was not scheduled and CW will put up a meetomatic survey to
          determine the best date. It will, however be at 12pm noon UTC. This will be:<lb/> 06:00
          MDT in Calgary,<lb/> 07:00 CDT in Chicago,<lb/> 08:00 EDT in New York,<lb/> 13:00 BST in
          London,<lb/> 14:00 CEST in Paris,<lb/> 21:00 JST in Kyoto, and<lb/> Wed 18 July, 00:00
          NZST in Wellington.<lb/>
          <note type="action">
            <label>CW</label> CW to set date for  next
            meeting using meetomatic, and announce by <date>2007-08-10</date>
          </note>
        </p>
      </div>
    </body>
  </text>
</TEI.2>
