<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TEI Council Meeting <date>26 and 27 April 2007</date></title>
        <author>Syd Bauman</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <idno type="TEI">TC M 30</idno>
        <availability>
          <p>For distribution first to Council, then to world via TEI
            website.</p>
        </availability>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>This TEI Lite P4 (XML) document was generated from the
          original source (conforming to a TEI P4 customization called
          <name>meetingCapture</name>) by Syd's <name type="pgm">meetingCaputre2Lite.xslt</name> stylesheet.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
    <revisionDesc>
      <change>
        <date value="2007-06-01"/>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Lou</name>
          <resp>editor</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <item>Hacked to make it display properly on website, which
	is (after all) where it is supposed to be read</item>
      </change>
      <change>
        <date value="2007-05-02"/>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Syd</name>
          <resp>editor</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <item>Transformed to TEI Lite P4 (XML)</item>
      </change>
      <change>
        <date value="2007-04-29/05-02"/>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Syd</name>
          <resp>editor</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <item>edited, switching from my old meet-mins DTD to a new
          meetingCapture DTD.</item>
      </change>
      <change>
        <date value="2007-04-26/27"/>
        <respStmt>
          <name>Syd</name>
          <resp>editor</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <item>captured notes during meeting</item>
      </change>
    </revisionDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>All times are local (CEST, UTC +2) unless otherwise noted.</p>
        <p>All expected participants were present: Syd Bauman, David
          Birnbaum, Tone Merete Bruvik, Lou Burnard, Arianna Ciula,
          James Cummings, Matthew Driscoll, Dan O'Donnel, Dot Porter,
          Sebastian Rahtz, Laurent Romary, Conal Tuohy, John Walsh, and
          Christian Wittern (chair).</p>
        <p>The meetings were held at the <xref url="http://veranstaltungszentrum.bbaw.de/anfahrt/">Berlin-Brandenburgische 
            Akademie der Wissenschaften</xref>, Gendarmenmarkt,
          Berlin. Immediately prior to the meeting Council received a
          presentation about the BBAW by Alexander Geyken, and thanks
          its hosts for the opportunity to meet in such a lovely and
          historic place. Council also expresses its gratitude to
          Council member LR for again being the local host (he hosted
          the <xref url="./tcm17.xml">2005 Council Meeting</xref> as
          well).</p>
        <p>Meeting <foreign>per se</foreign> called to order <time value="2007-04-26T09:20">Thursday approximately
            09:20</time> and continued until <time value="2007-04-26T17:50">approximately 17:50</time>;
          resumed <time value="2007-04-27T09:10">Friday approximately
            09:10</time> and continued until <time value="2007-04-27T17:38">approximately 17:38</time>.</p>
<!--        <p>Note that pointers into the Guidelines refer to a temporary
          copy that mirrors Sourceforge (delayed ~5 mins) that was set
          up for this meeting; the contents of the Guidelines may well
          have changed, or said copy may no longer be available by the
          time you read this.</p>
        <note place="display"><label rend="bold">temporary:</label>
          Temporary notes from this note-taker to the members of
          council proofing this document are encoded as <gi>note</gi>
          and appear <note resp="SB" type="temp">like this</note>.
          Places where this note-taker missed some content that
          proofreaders should fill in were encoded as <gi>gap</gi> then
          transformed to <gi>hi</gi>, and appear <hi rend="italics">[?
	like             this ?]</hi>.</note> -->
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
      <div id="partI" n="I">
        <div n="1">
          <head>Adoption of Agenda</head>
          <p>No major changes; as expected, some items were added to the
            list of issues in <ptr target="RES"/>.</p>
        </div>
        <div n="2">
          <head>Minutes, work items, progress since last meeting</head>
          <list type="gloss">
            <label>SR: move outstanding … to TRAC</label>
            <item>done</item>
            <label>CW: write to PB … P5 1.0</label>
            <item>done; Murray McGillivray says it's a good opportunity to work further
              on proposals</item>
            <label>LB: Post … TEI-L to solicit comment</label>
            <item>Consensus was this was done, and that there has been
              no public outcry; note also <xref url="http://icon.stoa.org/trac/pleiades/wiki/TEIPlaceDraft">Tom 
                Elliot's comments</xref>. There has been no
              significant objection to either <gi>listPlace</gi> or
              <gi>nym</gi> proposals.</item>
            <label>all: Attempt to encode a place …</label>
            <item><p>DO, AC, JC report they've done this, and during
                the ensuing discussion the issue of dating attributes
                was raised. Council felt that any element that
                required either the attributes in
                <name type="class">att.datable</name> or those in
                <name type="class">att.dateTime</name> would also need the other.
                Thus it was decided to merge these two classes, with
                the recognition that any element that needed dating
                attributes would now have 5 attributes with which to
                do so, unless the module on names and dates is loaded,
                in which case there would be 10.<note type="action">
                  <label>SB</label> 
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/329"/>.
Merge
                    <name type="class">att.datable</name> and
                    <name type="class">att.dateTime</name>, using new name for
                    <name type="attr">value</name>/<name type="attr">dateValue</name>
                </note><note resp="SB" type="temp">What about
                  <name type="attr">duration</name>? Should it also be in this
                  combined attribute class?</note></p> <p>However, it
                was agreed that when the classes were merged neither
                the current name of the attribute supplied by
                <name>att.dateTime</name> (<name type="attr">value</name>) nor the
                previously proposed name (<name type="attr">dateValue</name>) were
                good names for this attribute, the former because it
                carries insufficient semantic information when used on
                elements other than <gi>date</gi> and <gi>time</gi>,
                and the latter because it is too clumsy for use on
                <gi>date</gi> and <gi>time</gi>.<note type="action">
                  <label>LB</label> Come up with a new name for
                    <name type="attr">value</name>/<name type="attr">dateValue</name>
                </note></p>
            </item>
            <label>all: Review the [conformance] draft …</label>
            <item>done; discussion of details deferred until chapter review</item>
            <label>JC: Produce revised draft</label>
            <item>JC reports this was accomplished, and furthermore that
              the draft was then revised again by LB.</item>
            <label>SR, LB: Draft request for chapter reviewers</label>
            <item>done</item>
            <label>SR: Allocate chapter reviewers</label>
            <item>done</item>
            <label>LB, SB: … list of outstanding issues …</label>
            <item>not really done, but the the moment passed by</item>
          </list>
        </div>
        <div n="3">
          <head>Reports on Chapter reviews</head>
          <div n="FM1-IntroductoryNote.xml">
            <p>JC reports that he has reviewed FM1, and that, not
              surprisingly, it needs to be entirely re-written. JC has
              opened a <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/326">ticket 
                in Trac</xref> for the re-write and has assigned it to
              LB. Council notes that this includes updating the list
              of contributors to the Guidelines. LB notes that
              traditionally, and for good reason, this section is
              produced last.</p>
            <p>Along with contributions, it was pointed out that the
              current editors' names do not appear on the title page
              (only the names of the original editors of P1, P2, and P3
              appear). It was agreed that how credit for editing is
              attributed on the title page is an issue for the Board of
              Directors. <note type="action">
                <label>DO</label>
                Raise issue of editors' names on title page w/
                  Board
              </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="AB-About.xml">
            <p>DO reports that this section also needs to be almost
              completely re-written. There are quite a few changes
              needed that DO feels he can do himself, but there are also
              sections requiring re-write, that he does not feel
              comfortable doing. It was agreed that DO should
              <soCalled>tweak</soCalled> those parts of the chapter
              which should remain in place (and send the results of this
              effort to <xref url="mailto:editors@tei-c.org">the
                editors</xref>), and indicate the sections which need to
              be re-written entirely (by posting to the <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/20">Trac ticket</xref>).<note type="action">
                <label>DO</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/330"/>.
Work on AB
              </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="SG-GentleIntroduction.xml">
            <p>AC reports basically that there is too much discussion
              of DTDs. Council discussed what the goals of SG should
              be — the consensus was that SG is to discuss
              <emph>only</emph> that which is needed to understand the
              Guidelines, i.e., discuss Relax NG compact syntax to the
              exclusion of other schema languages. Discussions of
              Relax NG XML syntax and DTDs (if they continue to be
              supported) should be elsewhere, perhaps USE.<note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/327"/>.
Trim down SG to RNC only
              </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="CH-LanguagesCharacterSets.xml">
            <p>TMB reports that she has reviewed this chapter, and
              considers it in good condition except for Unicode 5
              updates. Editors report that very recently (i.e., later
              than the copy TMB was reviewing) all updates suggested
              for Unicode 5 have been made except for those needed to
              update the format of language tags from RFC 3066 to RFC
              4646. <note type="action"> <label>SB</label> Finish
                  3066 to 4646 update </note></p>
            <p>Council considered where in the Guidelines this
              information should be placed, and decided it would be
              better if CH were the last part of the front matter,
              rather than the first chapter. (This change would
              simultaneously make ST the first chapter, which seemed
              fitting, and move discussion of character sets, which is
              arguably not directly a TEI topic, out of the sequence
              of chapters.)<note type="action"> <label>LB</label>
                move CH to <gi>front</gi> after SG
                <date>done</date> </note>
            </p>
            <p>DB reports one possible confusing point in CH — summed
              up with the question <q>should
                <mentioned>cœur</mentioned> be considered to be 4- or
                5-characters long?</q>.</p>
          </div>
          <div n="ST-Infrastructure.xml">
            <p>DB reports overall it looks fine. It discusses all 3
              schema languages (Relax NG, W3C XML Schema Language, and
              XML Document Type Definitions), and he suggests moving
              discussion of schema languages &amp; fragments out of this
              chapter.</p>
            <p>Council was not prepared to commit one way or the other
              on this issue, in large part because there are other
              major issues to consider with respect to ST, including
              what it should contain and what is its position in the
              Guidelines. Council thus deferred a definitive decision
              pending action item on all to re-read and re-think <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=ST">ST</xref> 
              and its position in the Guidelines<note type="action">
                <label>DB</label> 
TRAC <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/341">
Re-think ST and its position in the Guidelines </xref><date>soon</date> </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="HD-Header.xml">
            <p>JW &amp; MD. JW reports he will send list of DTD
              references. Suggests changing <q>computer file</q> to
              something more modern, e.g. <q>digital object</q>. JW
              thinks we should remove <q>machine-readable
                transcription</q> <foreign>vel sim</foreign> from the
              suggested value of <gi>title</gi>.<note type="action"><label>DP</label>Recommend keeping
                  <q>machine-readable transcription</q> or not
              </note> He does not believe ISBDCF (perhaps ISBDER now?)
              would normally create a title like this. It was agreed
              that <hi rend="italics">[? missed something here?
                ?]</hi> would find out what ISBD category TEI files
              are, and how they <hi rend="italics">[? who are they?
                ?]</hi> recommend this be done, and then recommend a
              re-wording of the entire paragraph in HD accordingly.
              <note type="action"> <label>DP</label> find out ISBD
                  recommendations, and suggest re-wording of paragraph
                  in HD </note>JW also points out that a
              <gi>specList</gi> precedes a list of elements with prose
              descriptions near the beginning of section <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=HD#HD53">HD.3.3 
              </xref>; he suggested, and Council agreed, that the
              <gi>specDesc</gi>s be broken out of list and put with
              the prose.       <note type="action"> <label>Eds</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/337"/>.
Merge lists in HD.3.3 </note></p>
            <p>It was also pointed out that the content of
              <gi>gloss</gi>es in the Guidelines are inconsistent, e.g.
              in use of case.<note type="action">
                <label>SB</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/338"/>.
Regularize glosses
              </note> </p>
            <p>There was lots of discussion on <gi>rendition</gi> and
              <name type="attr">rend</name>, the details of which are
              not currently in these minutes, but rather are to be
              written up by JW; this write-up should include
              discussion of: <list>
                <item>mechanism to indicate a default rendition</item>
                <item>style (suggestions to processors as to how the TEI
                  file should look on output) vs rendition (recording how
                  the source document looks)</item>
                <item>mechanism for stating in what language (e.g., CSS,
                  XSLFO, DSSSL, WWP rendition ladders) renditions are
                  recorded</item>
              </list> <note type="action">
                <label>JW</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/334"/>.
Write up his thoughts &amp; today's council discussion
                  on rendition
              </note>. The main immediate result of this discussion
              was to add a <name type="attr">mimeType</name> attribute to
              <gi>rendition</gi>.
              <note type="action">
                <label>Eds</label>
                add a <name type="attr">mimeType</name> attribute
                  to <gi>rendition</gi><date>2007-05-04</date>
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>DO points out there is a protected namespace
              <q>example.TLD</q>.<note type="action">
                <label>Eds.</label>
                update examples like <name type="attr">scheme</name> that use URIs to use
                  <mentioned>example.edu</mentioned>
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>JW pointed out some further particular deficiencies:<list>
                <item><xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=HD#HD3">HD.2.7</xref>
                  has no reference to
                  <gi>msDescription</gi><note type="action">
                    <label>LB</label>
                    Put a discussion of <gi>msDesc</gi> into HD
                  </note>
                </item>
                <item>In <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=HD#HD41">HD.4.2</xref>
                  the discussion of the <gi>language</gi>
                  element does not mention <name type="attr">ident</name> up front. <note type="action">
                    <label>SB</label>
                    add <name type="attr">ident</name> to <name type="attr">atts</name> of <gi>specDesc</gi> for
                      <gi>language</gi> in HD.4.2.
                  </note></item>
<!--                <item>There is an occurrence of <name
                    type="attr">xml:id</name> that should be <name
                    type="attr">ident</name> on a
                  <gi>language</gi>, which was fixed during the meeting.<note><label>LB</label><p>fix
                      <name
                        type="attr">xml:id</name><date>2007-04-28</date></p></note></item>-->
              </list>
            </p>
            <p>A brief discussion about the necessity of having the
              target of a pointer that is in an example also present in
              an example (possibly the same one). Council noted that if
              the target is not in the same or a nearby example, it
              should be mentioned in the prose that discusses the
              example to what kind of element the attribute points.
              E.g., <q>In the following example, the values of the
                <name type="attr">who</name> attribute refer to
                <gi>castItem</gi> elements in the TEI
                header</q>.</p>
            <p>Council changed name of <gi>msDescription</gi> to
              <gi>msDesc</gi>.<note type="action">
                <label>Eds</label>
                change name of <gi>msDescription</gi> to
                  <gi>msDesc</gi>.
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>MD supplied a list of typos to in HD to LB.<note type="action"><label>LB</label>fix MD-reported
                  typos in HD<date>done</date></note></p>
          </div>
          <div n="CO-CoreElements.xml">
            <p>DB reported that overall this chapter is in good shape,
              with no references to DTDs. He has <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2007/002860.html">several 
                comments</xref> which were posted (via SB) to the
              Council list.</p>
            <p>Council discussed the current mechanism of indexing.
              While the thought was expressed that perhaps duplicating
              the indexing mechanism that is used for printed books
              (with the capability of handling a span added on) is not
              ideal, no one thought it would be a good idea to re-think
              how indexing works for P5 1.0.</p>
            <p>Council decided that the prose of the Guidelines should
              explicitly say you can either put multiple names in
              <gi>author</gi> or use multiple <gi>author</gi>s, with an
              example of each near where <gi>author</gi> is defined.
            </p><!-- action>
            <name>all</name>
            <resp>read CO with respect to how it might be divided
            &mdash; is there stuff in CO that would be better
            placed in a specialized chapter.</resp>
          </action -->
          </div>
          <div n="DS-DefaultTextStructure.xml">
            <p>AC reports she has noted references to P4 architecture
              on the <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/61">Trac 
                ticket</xref>, and that LB has already fixed them.</p>
            <p>Council reviewed and discussed <gi>floatingText</gi>,
              with approval and support for the Guidelines current
              handling of it, but the desire for more examples.</p>
            <p>The problem with content in <gi>divGen</gi> was
              discussed (i.e., that deterministic content models can
              not be generated for <gi>divGen</gi> with the content
              Council has requested — <name type="class">att.divTop</name> and <name type="class">att.divBottom</name>). Since several
              Council members thought use cases requiring
              <gi>head</gi> were clear, but no one had any, or could
              readily come up with any, use cases for the other
              elements, it was decided that the content could be
              limited to a new class (<name type="class">model.headLike</name>), which should be
              created and used in places (like <gi>divGen</gi> and
              <gi>castGroup</gi>) rather than <gi>head</gi>
              directly.<note type="action"> <label>SB</label>
                create <name type="class">model.headLike</name>
              </note></p>
            <p>Council also recommended that the discussion of the use
              of <gi>divGen</gi> in the Guidelines (i.e., <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=CO#CONOIX">CO.8.2.2</xref> 
              should also discuss the use of PIs for the same
              purpose.<note type="action"> <label>LB</label> Add
                  discussion of PIs to CO.8.2.2 </note></p>    
          </div>
          <!--break: lunch, 12:30 to 13:58 -->
          <div n="VE-Verse.xml">
            <p>JW has noted some typographical errors, which he will
              post.<note type="action">
                <label>JW</label>
                post errors noticed in VE
              </note> He also noticed that the first occurrence of
              <name type="attr">met</name> in section <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=VE#VEST">VE.2</xref>
              should instead be
              <name type="attr">rhyme</name>, and that the last paragraph of this
              section has some problems (the word
              <mentioned>as</mentioned> is missing, the implication
              that <gi>lg</gi>s may not contain headings is
              incorrect).<note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                fix VE.2 errors JW reported
                <date>done</date>
              </note></p>
          </div>
          <div n="DR-PerformanceTexts.xml">
            <p>JC points out that his comments have been posted to the
              <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/82">Trac
                ticket</xref>, and that he has had some conversation with LB
              about this chapter. Very little of importance has changed
              or needs to change, except the addition of discussion of
              the new <gi>floatingText</gi> element.</p>
          </div>
          <div n="TS-TranscriptionsofSpeech.xml">
            <p>DP reports that there is a reference to a character
              entity (<name type="ent">sp</name>) in <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=TS#TSBA">TS.7.2</xref>. 
              <note>No action was assigned during the meeting; the
                note-taker has assigned them to the
                editors.</note><note type="action"> <label>SB</label>
                Remove entity reference from example in TS.7.2.
              </note> She also reports that one of the examples is
              <q>a bit confusing</q> <hi rend="italics">[? which one?
                ?]</hi>, and that the use of <gi>del</gi> in an
              example is also confusing, if appropriate at all.<note type="action"> <label>LB</label> improve wording
                  discussing use of <gi>del</gi> in an example
                  transcription </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="DI-PrintDictionaries.xml">
            <p>LR reports that while significant progress has been made
              on this chapter, there is still much to be done, and raises
              the question as to how to proceed. He has a full-time
              person, Eva Radermacher,
              working on this chapter for the next 6 months.</p>
            <p>Per the chair, Council deferred for 2–3 months any
              final decision as to whether we
              <list>
                <item>include the revised chapter in P5 1.0 (for which
                  a necessary but not sufficient condition is that we
                  accept the results of Eva Radermacher's
                  efforts</item>
                <item>keep the current chapter, but put a health warning
                  on it</item>
                <item>drop the chapter entirely</item>
              </list>
              <note type="action">
                <label>LR</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/340"/>.
Present DI revision progress to Council list
                <date>2007-07-31</date>
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>DB suggests changing the name of this chapter to
              <q>Dictionaries</q>. <note type="action"><label>eds</label>Change name of DI
                  to <q>Dictionaries</q>
		<date>done</date>
	      </note>
              </p>
          </div>
          <div n="MS-ManuscriptDescription.xml">
            <p>DO wonders about whether <gi>dimensions</gi> and its 3
              special children could just be <gi>measure</gi>s, about
              which there was much discussion.</p>
            <p>Eventually, and not without controversy, it was decided
              that a new element, <gi>measureGrp</gi>, should be
              introduced to contain measures. Only two use cases have
              become apparent so far: dimensions and blood pressures.
              The new element will be placed in the <name type="module">core</name> module, and its
              <q>suggested values include</q> list will have to
              move from the <gi>dimensions</gi> tagdoc into the MS discussion.<note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/328"/>.
Generalize <gi>dimensions</gi> to
                  <gi>measureGrp</gi>
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>In <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=MS#msid">MS.4</xref>
              there is a discussion of <gi>institution</gi>
              that disagrees with the general prose. A wording change to
              the prose &amp; the definition of <gi>institution</gi> was
              suggested.<note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                Implement change to discussion of
                  <gi>institution</gi>
                <date><emph>done</emph></date>
              </note></p>
            <p>The question was raised whether <gi>custodialHist</gi> is
              a special case of a <gi>placeEvent</gi>? It was quickly
              concluded that it is not, and it was suggested that it is
              a <gi>thingEvent</gi>. <note resp="SB">This
                author thinks that both <gi>placeEvent</gi> and
                <gi>custodialEvent</gi> are instances of the
                non-existent general <gi>event</gi> element.</note></p>
            <p>It was pointed out that the examples and discussion in
              this chapter still refer to <gi>q</gi> rather than
              <gi>quote</gi>, although the tagdocs use
              <gi>quote</gi>.<note type="action">
                <label>SB</label>
                Change <gi>q</gi> to <gi>quote</gi> in MS
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>The question was raised as to whether or not
              <gi>institution</gi> should self-nest. <hi rend="italics">[? missed something here? ?]</hi></p>
          </div>
          <div n="SA-LinkingSegmentationAlignment.xml">
            <p>DP found several minor errors. <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                fix minor errors DP found in SA
                <date><emph>done</emph></date>
              </note><note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                fix reference to <name type="attr">extendedTarg</name>
                <date><emph>done</emph></date>
              </note>Those that were not fixed during the meeting will
              be posted to the Council list.<note type="action">
                <label>DP</label>
                send rest of errors to Council list
              </note></p>
          </div>
          <div n="AI-AnalyticMechanisms.xml">
            <p>CT reported that he found no references to DTDs, SGML, or
              P4, nor any other glaring problems in this chapter.</p>
          </div>
          <div n="FS-FeatureStructures.xml">
            <p>JW reported that he found no references to DTDs, SGML, or
              P4; however, as he does not use feature structures, he did
              not feel qualified to comment further.</p>
          </div>
          <div n="CE-CertaintyResponsibility.xml">
            <p>CW reported that he found no references to DTDs, SGML, or
              P4, nor any other glaring problems in this chapter. It was
              noted that there have been calls to significantly re-work
              this chapter, but as details have not been expressed, and
              there is no clear avenue for how such work would get done,
              let alone done in time for P5 1.0 release, it was decided
              to leave this chapter as it is.</p>
          </div>
          <div n="PH-PrimarySources.xml">
            <p>DO reported <hi rend="italics">[? missed something here? ?]</hi> </p>
            <p>There was some discussion around the recurring issue of
              substitution, and how <gi>add</gi>,
              <gi>del</gi>, and
              <gi>supplied</gi> interact. It was suggested that we
              should consider adding a <gi>suppress</gi> element, or perhaps
              the generic <gi>ed</gi>. A smaller group will directly
              address the
              <gi>add</gi>/<gi>del</gi>/<gi>supplied</gi>/<gi>suppress</gi>/<gi>substitution</gi>/<gi>ed</gi>
              issue, including checking the wording of this chapter closely.<note type="action">
                <label>LB, MD, DO, TMB, SB</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/331"/>.
Solve the substitution <foreign>et al.</foreign> issue
              </note><note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                report back on results of substitution group's effort
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>In <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=PH#PHAB">PH.1.2</xref>
              the word <mentioned>confidence</mentioned> is
              used to describe <name type="attr">resp</name> and again
              in <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=PH#PHCC">PH.1.3</xref>
              (slightly differently) where it probably
              shouldn't.<note type="action">
                <label>eds.</label>
                remove wording of description of <name type="attr">resp</name> in prose PH.1.2 &amp; PH.1.3
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>It was generally agreed that <gi>handShift</gi> should
              be treated as a full-fledged milestone element, and thus
              the wording of the description needs to change and the
              <name type="attr">old</name> attribute needs to be dropped.<note type="action">
                <label>eds.</label>
                improve <gi>handShift</gi>, including dropping
                  <name type="attr">old</name>
              </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="TC-CriticalApparatus.xml">
            <p>It was generally agreed that the chapter on critical
              apparatus should come before the chapter on primary sources.<note type="action">
                <label>SB</label>
                reverse TC and PH
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>There was a suggestion that we explicitly say <gi>app</gi> is a
              special form of <gi>choice</gi>, but no decision to do
              so was made.</p>
            <p>The example with <q>hord beweotode,</q> (which is in
              <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=TC#TCAPLR">TC.1.2</xref> 
              was found confusing, but explained by LB.<note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                Add a note added in TC.1.2 to explain 1st
                  Beowulf example better
                <date><emph>done</emph></date>
              </note></p>
            <p>Council briefly discussed whether or not a
              <gi>witDetail</gi> should be considered a special form of
              <gi>note</gi>. It was decided to solicit a concrete
              proposal before further discussing the issue. DO
              volunteered to write a proposal for dropping
              <gi>witDetail</gi>, complete with a mechanism for
              replacing the functionality of <name type="attr">wit</name>. He will post the proposal to the
              Council mailing list.<note type="action">
                <label>DO</label>
                proposal for dropping
                  <gi>witDetail</gi>
              </note></p>
            <p><note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/332"/>.
Change <gi>witList</gi> to <gi>witGroup</gi>,
                  allow it to self-nest, and drop <name type="attr">included</name>.
              </note></p>
            <p>Council briefly discussed the perceived difference
              between charters and manuscript descriptions, but
              concluded we need more expert input from those who deal
              directly with charters.<note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> work out what Gautier Poupeau
                  really wants. </note> DB and MD agreed to
              experiment with using the tagset in GD for representing
              a MS stemma.<note type="action"> <label>DB, MD</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/339"/>.
Stemma modeling using graph elements </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="ND-NamesDates.xml">
            <p>AC has already posted her comments to <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/159">Trac</xref>, 
              and LB has acted on many already. It was further noted
              that in the prose of the chapter there is no mention of
              the fact that we have no mechanism for regularizing
              dates in non-(proleptic-)Gregorian calendars, nor of the
              <name type="attr">calendar</name> attribute, <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label>
                Discuss <name type="attr">calendar</name> in the prose
              </note><note type="action">
                <label>SB</label>
                point out no regularization of other calendars
                  in the prose
              </note><note type="action"><label>SB</label>explain
              W3C vs ISO date attrs in prose</note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="GD-GraphsNetworksTrees.xml">
            <p>Council revisited the concern that the entire chapter
              may not be useful to any users, but again decided to
              keep this chapter in the Guidelines.</p>
          </div>
          <div n="FT-TablesFormulaeGraphics.xml">
            <p>CT reports that there are  several references to TEI
              table and other DTDs, most if not all of which should
              probably say <q>schema</q>. <!-- q>We do not show here
              how the MathML ...</q --></p>
            <p>CT also pointed out that the Guidelines should give
              more information on how to use other markup languages
              (in particular SVG) in a TEI document here, or at least
              reference MD</p>
            <p>DB suggests a completely different model for table
              representation (each cell has the property of being a
              member of that which is on top of it and to its left).
              General agreement that this should be deferred until after
              1.0.</p>
            <p>The question arose as to where the new work on facsimiles
              should go? Possibilities include primary sources (PH),
              linking (SA), and graphics (GD).</p>
          </div>
          <div n="CC-LanguageCorpora.xml">
            <p>DP reported that she noticed a few details, and these
              were discussed briefly. Among other things, she had
              noticed a reference to <q>TEI dtd</q>.<note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                fix reference to DTD in CC
                <date><emph>done</emph></date>
              </note></p>
            <p>DP suggested that perhaps more guidance should be
              provided in section <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=CC#CCREC">CC.5</xref>, 
              but no definitive recommendations arose <hi rend="italics">[? missed something here? ?]</hi>.</p>
            <p>It was noted that the <gi>teiCorpus</gi> element is
              defined in the <name type="module">core</name> module. A
              suggestion was made to move the entire discussion from
              this chapter into <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=DS">DS</xref>, 
              as <gi>teiCorpus</gi> is used for collections other than
              corpora. A further suggestion was made to rename it to
              <gi>teiGroup</gi>.<note type="action">
                <label>LB</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/333"/>.
Merge corpus chapter into DS.

              </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <!--break: , 26T17:50 to 27T09:10 -->
          <div n="WD-NonStandardCharacters.xml">
            <p>LR reports he did not look at it, but since it was
              written afresh for P5, there will be no vestigial
              references to DTDs, SGML, or P4.</p>
          </div>
          <div n="FD-FeatureSystemDeclaration.xml">
            <p>CW reports that he found some references to DTDs in this
              chapter which he has fixed and LB has checked in.</p>
            <p>LB reports that he &amp; LR will be meeting with Kiyong
              Lee, the chair of the ISO work-group that is working on
              FSDs, on 2007-05-10. <note type="action">
                <label>LR</label>
                report back on meeting
              </note>The expectation is that the ISO group will use
              the current P5 chapter as its starting point, and will
              have a finished version ready in time for P5 1.0.</p>
          </div>
          <div n="TD-DocumentationElements.xml">
            <p>DB reports that he found a few typographical errors
              that he has posted <hi rend="italics">[? where? ?]</hi>. He further
              notes
              that description of <gi>egXML</gi> says it contains
              well-formed XML, but in fact it constitutes well-formed
              XML. <note type="action">
                <label>Eds</label>
                fix wording in description of
                  <gi>egXML</gi>
              </note></p>
            <p>
              He notes a formatting error in an example which LB fixed
              immediately. He also noticed an error in the table
              describing the behaviors for the various values of <name type="attr">mode</name>
              with value <code>"delete"</code>. CT pointed
              out another problem with the table. <note type="action">
                <label>SR</label>
		go through <name type="attr">mode</name> table near
		end of TD
		<date>done 2007/05/05</date>
              </note>
            </p>
            <p>SB suggested moving <gi>gi</gi>, <gi>att</gi>,
              <gi>val</gi>, and <gi>tag</gi> out of TD; there was
              general agreement that it may be a good idea, but there
              are lots of other such re-arrangements we might want to
              do, and we certainly can't do them all.</p>
            <p>SR wonders if it would be better if users could delete an
              entire class at once — consensus was yes, but it was
              not clear how or if it could be done for P5 1.0.</p>
          </div>
          <div n="SH-OtherMetadataStandards.xml">
            <p>MD recommends chapter be dropped. JW (co-author of the
              re-write) concurs. JW was assigned to draft a few
              paragraphs discussing the relationship between the TEI
              Header and other standards (including MARC and Dublin
              Core) in general terms, without detailed mappings.<note type="action">
                <label>JW</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/336"/>.
Draft paras on metadata standards
                <date>2007-05-05</date>
              </note><note type="action">
                <label>SB</label>
                put JW paras in appropriate place at end of
                  HD
                <date>2007-05-12</date>
              </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="USE">
            <p>Council discussed newly synthesized <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=USE">USE</xref> 
              chapter, and expressed significant misgivings about the
              presence of NH. Council desired to re-arrange the order
              of the main sections to: DT, MD, CF; as previously
              decided to drop SH, and decided to keep NH at the end of
              USE, at least for now.<note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> 
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/308"/>.
Re-arrange USE and rewrite introduction to match </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div n="NH-MultipleHierarchies.xml">
            <p>TMB reports that she has reviewed the chapter, and
              believes as an introduction to the problem it is a good
              idea to keep it in the Guidelines. She has found some
              errors, problems, and omissions which she will post to
              Trac tickets <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/236">236</xref>,
              <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/236">237</xref>, and
              <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/236">238</xref>.</p>
            <p>TMB says that the prose of NH must be far clearer about
              which solutions are available in P5, which are
              implementable in P5, and which are not. She suggests
              there be pointers to template or exemplar ODDs
              demonstrating how to implement those solutions that can
              be.</p>
            <p>LB expressed concerns that the chapter is incompletely
              revised. <q>It promises one thing and doesn't
                deliver.</q></p>
            <p>Suggestion to move NH back to full chapter-hood with an
              associated module that has <name type="attr">next</name>,
              <name type="attr">prev</name>, &amp; <name type="attr">part</name>, and perhaps
              other overlap-specific specifications.</p>
            <p><note type="action">
                <label>SB</label>
                <label>TMB</label>
                re-work NH
              </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div id="CREVcf" n="CF-Conformance.xml">
            <p>JC briefly presented the section on conformance, and
              significant discussion ensued. </p>
            <p>The 5th bullet point in the definition of <term>TEI
                Conformant</term> was re-worded.</p>
            <p>Suggestion to change <q>conformable</q> to
              <q>algorithmically conformant</q> and
              <q>conformant</q> to <q>identically
                conformant</q>.</p>
            <p>There was a brief discussion on the use and meaning of
              the concept of <mentioned>interoperability</mentioned>
              versus <mentioned>interchangeability</mentioned>, and a
              suggestion to change the nomenclature to reflect the P4
              concept that extensions were conformant (as long as they
              meet certain criteria).</p>
            <p>Council discussed the implications of the phrasing
              <q><title>Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fourth
                  Edition)</title> or successor editions</q>, noting
              that this phrasing exists specifically to permit a TEI
              document to use a future edition of XML 1.0 (but does not
              license use of XML 1.1 or other versions).</p>
            <p>Council discussed the implications of the <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=USE#CFVL">validation 
                constraint</xref>, with the result that the wording of
              the second paragraph was changed. This included a
              significant discussion as to whether conformance
              requires validation against the instantiation of an ODD
              in <emph>a</emph> schema language (e.g., the DTD), or
              <emph>all</emph> of them (currently Relax NG, W3C XML
              Schema language, and DTDs — although SB posited
              that this is the same as validation against Relax NG, as
              there are no additional constraints expressed in either
              W3C Schema or DTD; LB disagreed, and SR was unsure this
              is the case). Council voted, and by an overwhelming
              majority (11 to 3, including editors) decided that the
              use of <emph>a</emph> schema was sufficient for this
              stage of conformance checking (as errors caught by one
              schema language but not another would fail to pass later
              stages), and thus kept the wording <q>one or
                more</q>.</p>
            <p>It was pointed out that this section does not yet
              discuss the use of the Schematron constraints.</p>
            <p>This discussion also included the topic of whether DTDs
              should be mentioned at all in this section and
              correspondingly whether the 1st sentence or at least
              clause of the 2nd paragraph of <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=USE#CFVL">validation 
                constraint</xref> should be deleted.
              <note type="action">
                <label>Eds.</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/308"/>.
Revise section and submit to Council list
              </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <!--break: lunch, 12:34 -->
          <div id="CREVmd" n="MD-ModifyingCustomizing.xml">
            <p>Council briefly discussed the issue of
              <q>clean</q> vs <q>unclean</q>, and
              quickly decided that the concepts were sound, but that
              we need to come up with better, non-controversial
              terminology.</p>
            <p>Concern was expressed that the phrase <q>…
                all existing TEI names</q> (near the end of the
              3rd paragraph of <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=USE#MDMDNM">MD.1.2</xref>) 
              may be interpreted to imply that a document with renamed
              elements meeting this constraint was conformant; it was
              suggested that we add a sentence indicating that this
              would not be the case. <hi rend="italics">[? was this                 already done or is there an action here? ?]</hi></p>
            <p>It was suggested that more discussion of the limitation
              of DTDs occur in <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=USE#MDMDNM">MD.1.2</xref>.</p>
            <p>There was some discussion on the topic of attribute
              namespaces. It was suggested that one way to think of the
              concept of <term>cleanliness</term> is that it refers to a
              document only after removal of elements and attributes
              that are from other namespaces. That is, the concept only
              applies to elements in the TEI namespace (including TEI
              examples namespace for <gi>egXML</gi>) and their
              attributes as declared in the Guidelines.</p>
            <p>It was suggested that we add discussion of other methods
              for constraining an attribute value (besides
              <gi>valList</gi>; e.g., use of facets) in <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=USE#MDMDAL">MD.1.4</xref>.</p>
            <p>It was noted that the last paragraph of <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=USE#MDMDAL">MD.1.4</xref> 
              needs to be rewritten based on the new definition of
              <term>clean</term>.</p>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div n="4">
          <head>Conformance Draft</head>
          <p>Most of this had already been covered during <ptr target="CREVcf CREVmd"/>, however at LB's request Council
            reviewed the list of steps for checking conformance near
            the beginning of <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=USE#CFCATSCH">CF.6</xref>.</p>
          <p>It was suggested that the use of the word
            <q>claim</q> in item #4 and #5 is inappropriate
            — it was argued briefly that putting an
            <name type="attr">xmlns</name> attribute on an element does not make a
            <soCalled>claim</soCalled> that an element is in a given
            namespace, but rather (like a performance act) puts it
            there. However, the consensus was that no change is
            needed.</p>
          <p>It was agreed that item #6 needs to be reworded.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>Formatting of Guidelines</head>
          <p>JC reported that he &amp; DP are beginning work on the
            formatting of the HTML version of the Guidelines. It was
            suggested and accepted that they should be simultaneously
            working on the formatting of the HTML documentation of a 
            customization. JC requested that each member of Council send
            in his or her top 5 (or more) suggestions for improvements to
            the formatting of the HTML Guidelines and customization
            documentation. If the suggestion could be accompanied by
            specifics (e.g., snippets of CSS code) that would be even
            better, but is not required.<note type="action">
              <label>all</label>
              send suggestions for improvements to formatting
            </note>After receiving the suggestions JC and DP will
            filter out the inappropriate ones, combine those that are
            essentially the same, etc., and report back to Council.
          They will implement those changes they can, and write up
          those that require, e.g., changes to the XSLT architecture.<note type="action">
              <label>JC, DP</label>
              
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/276"/>.
Collect, filter, formatting improvements; implement that which they can; report back
            </note>
          </p>
        </div>
      </div>
      <div n="II">
        <div id="RES" n="6">
          <head>Resolution of outstanding issues</head>
          <div>
            <head>proposal to add a metadata element to record
              application information</head>
            <p>MH's suggestion was presented. LB indicated
              disagreement with the proposal.</p>
            <p>After some discussion, Council decided to create a
              <soCalled>protected</soCalled> place inside the TEI
              Header of application-generated metadata, but to not
              populate this space.</p>
            <p>
              <label>Resolved</label>: A new <gi>tei:appInfo</gi>
              element will be created that is a member of
              <name type="class">model.encodingPart</name>, which contains one or
              more occurrences of a new element, <gi>application</gi>
              that can be used by programs to record information
              intended for other programs. The content of
              <gi>application</gi>, like <gi>egXML</gi>, must be
              well-formed XML, but no further constraints are placed
              on it at this time. It is a future work item to develop
              a mechanism to associate an <gi>application</gi> with an
              actual particular program.<note type="action">
                <label>SR</label>
                
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/315"/>.
Write the <gi>appInfo</gi> ODD
              </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div>
            <head>nyms</head>
            <p>There was general agreement that the proposal seemed
              sound. LB pointed out that the semantics of the
              structure was quite different than that of other names:
              a <gi>nym</gi> inside a <gi>nym</gi> expresses an
              alternative form of its parent <gi>nym</gi>. There was
              some discussion (mostly explanation) of the issue, but
              no sustained objections.</p>
            <p>It was pointed out that the structure may be thought of
              as similar to <gi>app</gi>.</p>
          </div>
          <div>
            <head>proposal for places &amp; placenames</head>
            <p>MD reported that the proposal may not need more work,
              but that we have not received the level of feedback
              desired.</p>
            <p>MD and AC are hoping to put together a meeting soon in
              London of MD, Oxfordians, Londoners, and Alex Czmiel to
              work further on the proposal once participants have put
              it to the test of encoding real data.<note type="action"> <label>MD</label> <p>
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/307"/>.
Report on place-name meeting</p> </note>
            </p>
            <p><note type="action"> <label>CW</label> Get
                  information from Alex Czmiel about why they find
                  personography recommendations unusable </note>
            </p>
          </div>
          <div>
            <head>facsimile markup</head>
            <p>CT presented work so far; rough notes have been
              integrated into an ODD which was shown to Council along
              with a sample encoding. It was pointed out that
              everything being done could also be represented in
              METS.</p>
            <p>The question was raised, why point from the TEI
              document instance to the graphic image, rather than from
              graphic image to the word in the instance, or use
              stand-off (e.g. <gi>link</gi>)? It was pointed out that
              the current proposal includes an <gi>area</gi> that
              performs exactly that function: graphic-to-word
              pointing.</p>
            <p>There was a consensus that the prose accompanying any
              such suggestions should explain when and why an encoder
              might prefer to use one method or the other.</p>
            <p>Council briefly discussed whether the Guidelines should
              recommend this mechanism at all, or rely on methods
              already listed in <xref url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Guidelines/Source/Guidelines/en/guidelines-en.xml.ID=SA#SACSXA">SA</xref>, 
              or on METS, or perhaps put METS elements directly into
              TEI. Council believes this is worthwhile work,
              especially for the <soCalled>lightweight</soCalled>
              case. Council did not feel that that the proposed
              facsimile markup is a requirement for 1.0. It is not
              even clear to Council that this will necessarily go into
              a later release — the idea that it might end up a
              user extension was mentioned. However, Council
              reiterated its desire for a simple mechanism to handle
              the <soCalled>lightweight</soCalled> case, and
              furthermore is seeking from the proposal's authors
              suggestions on how it integrates with existing material,
              and into which module it would go.</p>
          </div>
          <div>
            <head>(other essential items collected in Part I)</head>
            <p>No other essential items were collected in <ptr target="partI"/>. However, several items inadvertently did
              not make the agenda, and were hastily discussed.</p>
            <div>
              <head>TEI Tite</head>
              <p>DO presented TEI Tite issues: 2 elements have been
                added, <gi>ornament</gi> and <gi>cols</gi>, which DO
                would like to either pull into P5 or change such that
                we don't need. It was suggested that <gi>ornament</gi>
                is equivalent to <gi>graphic</gi>, but this turned out
                not to be the case, as <gi>ornament</gi> is intended
                for markings made with standard Unicode characters,
                and <gi>graphic</gi> is intended for non-character
                images. It was noted that it is important that we
                spell out the details of what the semantics of
                <gi>equiv</gi> are and how it works. Thus DO and SR
                volunteered to rework the <xref url="http://artsci.wustl.edu/~ptrolard/tite.tgz">TEI
                  Tite proposal</xref> so that it is a
                <soCalled>clean</soCalled> TEI P5 customization,
                making appropriate use of <gi>equiv</gi>. <note type="action">
                  <label>DO, SR</label>
                  
TRAC <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/321"/>.
Rework Tite and deal with new elements one way or another.
                </note><note type="action">
                  <label>DO</label>
                  report on Tite revamp progress
                </note>
              </p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <head>postscript</head>
              <p>SB advised Council that, along with the change
                unwrapping <name type="class">model.divWrapper</name> and
                <name type="class">model.divWrapper.bottom</name> into
                <name type="class">model.divWrapper</name>,
                <name type="class">model.divTop</name>, and
                <name type="class">model.divBottom</name>, he has implemented a
                first draft of a <gi>postscript</gi> element for the
                encoding of postscripts. These changes are ready to be
                checked in, but have not for lack of a reliable,
                inexpensive internet connection. After a brief
                discussion about whether or not this element was
                important and should be included in P5 1.0 (the
                consensus was that it is and it should), and whether
                or not it was properly introduced (it was not —
                SB failed to create a Trac ticket until last week),
                Council requested that SB extract the
                <gi>postscript</gi> element from the other changes and
                create a free-standing ODD proposal for Council's
                review.<note type="action">
                  <label>SB</label>
                  move <gi>postscript</gi> to a free standing
                    ODD
                </note>
              </p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <head><gi>q</gi> and <gi>said</gi></head>
              <p>SB reported that work on a proposed solution is
                almost complete, and quickly described the two
                proposals that have been put forth <xref url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2007/002805.html">on
                  the list</xref>.
                Council did not wish to try to decide between them
                with out concrete proposals including ODDs.<note type="action">
                  <label>SB</label>
                  create 2nd <gi>said</gi> proposal, post both
                </note>
              </p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
        <div n="7">
          <head>Adoption of Resolutions</head>
          <p>Due in part to the hour, Chair suggested without
            objection that rather than go through action items and
            assign due dates as a group, the planning committee (CW,
            DO, SR) would prioritize the actions on their own.<note type="action"> <label>CW, DO, SR</label> order
                priority of these action items </note>
          </p>
        </div>
      </div>
    </body>
    <back>
      <div type="Appendix">
        <head>Additional Notes for Future Work</head>
        <p>During discussion several issues which are important future
          work items were mentioned, but were not directly apropos to
          the subject being discussed. They are recorded here at request
          of Chair.</p>
        <list>
          <item>Horizontal review — people going through multiple
            chapters looking for special cases that can or should be
            generalized.</item>
          <item>Consider splitting dates out of ND into separate module,
            chapter, or both?</item>
          <item>In the light of DB's suggestion, Council should consider
            establishing a small work-group to study tables sometime
            after the release of P5 1.0</item>
          <item>The delete-a-class-at-a-time proposal is a potential
            post-1.0 project involving re-write of ODD.</item>
        </list>
      </div>
    </back>
  </text>
</TEI.2>