<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.tei-c.org/release/xml/tei/custom/schema/relaxng/teilite.rng" type="xml"?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" rend="nospilt" xml:id="tcm39">
   <teiHeader>
      <fileDesc>
         <titleStmt>
            <title>TEI Council Meeting <date when="2008-08-21">21 August 2008</date>
            </title>
            <author>David Sewell</author>
         </titleStmt>
         <publicationStmt>
            <date>26 August 2008</date>
            <availability>
               <p>Licensed under <ptr target="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/uk/"/>
               </p>
            </availability>
         </publicationStmt>
         <sourceDesc>
            <p>From edited notes transcribed as text</p>
         </sourceDesc>
      </fileDesc>
      <revisionDesc>
         <change when="2008-08-26" who="#DRS">
            <name xml:id="DRS">David Sewell</name> created </change>
      </revisionDesc>
   </teiHeader>
   <text>
      <front>
         <div>
            <p>The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Thursday 21 August 2008 at 13:00
               UTC.</p>
            <p>
               <hi>Participants:</hi> Gabriel Bodard (GB), Peter Boot (PB), Tone Merete Bruvik
               (TMB), James Cummings (JC), Lou Burnard (LB; Oxford editorial support group), Dan
               O'Donnell (DO), Elena Pierazzo (EP), Laurent Romary (LR; Chair), Paul Schaffner (PS),
               David Sewell (DS; minutes), Manfred Thaller (MT), and John Walsh (JW). Susan
               Schreibman (SS) also joined in briefly.</p>
            <p>Council members unable to participate: Arianna Ciula. (JW entered the conference
               after 1 hr.)</p>
         </div>
      </front>
      <body>
         <div>
            <head>TEI P5 Bugs and Feature Requests from SourceForge</head>
            <div>
              <head>Overview</head>

            <p>Lou Burnard led a discussion of outstanding items on our <ref
                  target="http://sourceforge.net/projects/tei/">SourceForge project</ref> bug
               tracker. Previously the Oxford editorial support team had prepared a three-way <ref
                  target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Working/tcw15.html">triage</ref>
               of the items: <soCalled>green</soCalled> items that have been agreed to by at least
               one Council member, <soCalled>amber</soCalled> items that have not been fully
               considered and which needed further discussion, and <soCalled>red</soCalled> items
               that need substantial discussion or clarification before they can be acted upon.</p>
            <p>Council members assented to the division and agreed with the proposal that approved
               green items be incorporated into the next Guideline release; amber items be
               considered for inclusion in the next release; and red items not be considered for
               inclusion. </p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Green items</head>
               <p>Except as noted in the following summary of discussion, all green items were
                  okayed for implementation. <note type="action"><label>LB</label> will proceed to
                     implement green items</note></p>
               <list type="gloss">
                  <label>1848442: Attributes missing</label>
                  <item>EP noted that <att>extent</att> in <gi>gap</gi> is connected with one of the
                     amber items (1925125) and suggested that we discuss it in connection with that
                     item. </item><label>1852100: nameLink element should not have @ref or @key
                     attribute</label><item>EP said that <gi>persName</gi> does need to retain
                        <att>sort</att>. LB clarified why <gi>nameLink</gi> should not have
                     <att>key</att>: that attribute in a naming element points to a person. A
                        <gi>nameLink</gi> may have an onomastic referent, but that is what
                        <att>nymRef</att> is for.</item><label>2055116: Add typeDesc, analogous to
                     handDesc</label><item>LR notes that it will be important to document exactly
                     how the new <gi>typeDesc</gi> element is to be used. The question arose whether
                        <gi>handDesc</gi> and <gi>typeDesc</gi> should be mutually exclusive; as use
                     cases were imagined for both, they should be treated as
                     complementary.</item><label>2055122: Permit title page elements within msItem
                     and msContents</label><item>EP objected that this proposal is essentially a
                        <soCalled>patch</soCalled> to allow extra elements, when the real need is to
                     revisit <gi>physDesc</gi> usage as a whole. There was some sentiment (JC) to go
                     ahead and implement this patch now, with the understanding that further work is
                     needed on description of manuscripts and early printed books, but when it was
                     noted that at the next Members' Meeting there will be at least one paper on
                     this topic (by Dot Porter), Council agreed to defer action on this item.
                        <emph>Status changed to “amber”.</emph>
                  </item><label>2055820: change content model of &lt;w></label><item>DO noted a
                     possible objection to the proposal: the content model of <gi>w</gi> was
                     initially intended to be purely linguistic, so that allowing it to contain
                     typography would represent a philosophical change. LB noted that we have two
                     communities of users for <gi>w</gi> now, those interested purely in linguistic
                     phenomena and the community of manuscript editors who want to be able to
                     identify word-like objects for their own purposes; we may as well permit the
                     use of the tag for both purposes. LR agreed; the proposed of <gi>w</gi> will
                     not break existing linguistic uses, simply enable new ones.</item></list>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Amber Items</head>
               <list type="gloss"><label>2033641: erroneous "Empty element" statement in
                     documentation</label><item>This appears to be an artefact of a minor bug in the
                     way the documentation is generated via our XSLT stylesheets. <note
                        type="action"><label>Sebastian Rahtz</label> should tweak the stylesheet as
                        needed.</note></item><label>1925125: Review usage and precision of
                     @extent</label><item>Based on discussion between LB and JC, it is proposed that
                        <att>extent</att> be reserved for values of arbitrary text that are not
                     precisely quantifiable. In addition, the attributes <att>quantity</att> and
                        <att>unit</att> should be allowed on elements qualified by a measurement,
                     with <att>quantity</att> constrained to be a number. Documentation will explain
                     how to decide which alternative to use. Council agreed that we should try to
                     implement this for the next release.<note type="action"><label>LB</label> will
                        come up with a detailed proposal. <hi rend="italic">Subsequently, JC and GB
                           submitted a formal proposal regarding this ticket and ticket
                     1933198</hi></note></item><label>2055864: Remove redundant iso-*
                     attributes</label><item>LB noted that this item has a lengthy SourceForge
                     discussion. DO raised the concern that we will create confusion if we remove
                     several of the <hi rend="italic">iso-</hi> attributes but leave
                     <att>iso-when</att>; as <att>when</att> would remain in
                     <term>att.datable.w3c</term>, users might expect all the parallel
                        <term>att.datable.iso</term> attributes to be available. So if we remove
                     attributes as proposed, we should perhaps rename <att>iso-when</att> (which
                     will in any case have an expanded functionality). (As an aside, DS noted that
                        <att>period</att> should be an independent attribute, not classed under
                        <term>att.datable.w3c</term>,) <note type="action"><label>DS</label> will
                        confer with Syd Bauman on the ticket and return to Council with a
                     proposal.</note></item><label>2055891: Placement of Schematron
                     rules</label><item>LB explains that there are four alternate proposals for
                     governing the placement of Schematron rules in ODD files:<list type="ordered">
                        <item>Status quo (as children of <gi>content</gi>)</item>
                        <item>as direct children of <gi>elementSpec</gi> (original Sebastian Rahtz
                           proposal)</item>
                        <item>as children of a new ODD element like <gi>constraint</gi></item>
                        <item>allow them to occur anywhere.</item>
                     </list> LB asked whether Schematron rules shouldn't be freed from the
                     requirement to be attached to a single <gi>elementSpec</gi>. since they can
                     refer to multiple elements or attributes. LR favors <gi>content</gi> as the
                     container; PB noted that in Roma, users fill in <gi>content</gi> via a form
                     field, so that if we add a new element like <gi>constraint</gi>, Roma will need
                     to be extended. Council agreed that action on this item needs to be deferred
                     pending discussion with Sebastian. <note type="action"><label>SR</label> will
                        create a formal proposal on Schematron rule placement.</note></item></list>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Red Items</head>
               <p>The only red item we discussed individually was "2002418: New element =
                     <gi>clarification</gi>?" TMB feels this is an important item and would like us
                  to move on it. <note type="action"><label>TMB</label> will contact Ellen Nessheim
                     Wiger for additional background and examples, and will report back to
                  Council.</note></p>
               <p>DO asked about the status of red items; LB said that action on them will not be
                  taken before the next release, but Council members are encouraged to think about
                  them and add comments on SourceForge.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div>
            <head>Other Items</head>
            <div>
               <head><title>Getting Started</title> Document</head>
               <p>PB has shared a document with proposed goals and strategy for a <title>Getting
                     Started with TEI</title> document. Council members were requested to read over
                  the document and to return comments to the Council list for incorporation into the
                  minutes (see subsection below). Based on the feedback and offers of assistance, PB
                  as editor-in-chief will convene a group of authors and editors who will begin
                  dividing work and establishing timelines. We will aim to have a draft available by
                  the time of the Members’ Meeting, and will distribute the draft via TEI-L for
                  feedback from the community (with a request that they share the draft with new
                  users of the TEI for response if possible).</p>
               <p>
                  <note type="action"><label>ALL</label> are asked to provide responses to PB’s
                     outline on the tei-council list.</note>
               </p>
               <div>
                  <head>Preliminary Feedback</head>
                  <p>References: <ref
                        target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2008/009919.html"
                        >http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2008/009919.html</ref>,
                        <ref
                        target="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2008/009921.html"
                        >http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2008/009921.html</ref>.</p>
                  <p>EP suggests a chapter on text analysis, and notes that if we refer to specific
                     software platforms we will need to keep the document updated as software
                     evolves.</p>
                  <p>DS observes that the outline has a natural gradation from beginning to
                     intermediate-advanced topics, and suggests that this be made explicit to
                     readers (not all will need to work through the more advanced chapters). He
                     agrees with EP that presenting software usage will be one of the trickier tasks
                     in composing the document, and questions whether it is best to start with RELAX
                     NG XML syntax as proposed by PB.</p>
                  <p>In post-meeting discussion, consensus was that RELAX NG XML syntax does need to
                     be the base (possibly with the option to toggle compact syntax, as in the
                     online P5 Guidelines); and that we should use a single software platform
                     (oXygen) for examples, while linking to discussions of how to use other
                     software to accomplish the same tasks.</p>
               </div>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Formal Support for XML Schema Versions of Guidelines</head>
               <p>DS explained that this item grew out of <ref
                     target="http://listserv.brown.edu/archives/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0806&amp;L=TEI-L&amp;T=0&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=59"
                     >an observation on TEI-L from Romain Roure</ref> that the tei_all.xsd schema in
                  the Guidelines release software is invalid. Sebastian responded that the problem
                  involves more than a missing file called via inclusion but didn’t complete a
                  diagnosis of the problem. In addition, DS noted that the W3C schemas generated by
                  Roma for certain customizations (ones with multiple namespaces) cannot be fully
                  downloaded because they comprise two or more .xsd files, while Roma offers only
                  the single main file for download. DS and SR have discussed whether the TEI should
                  continue to maintain formal support for W3C XML Schema versions of the Guidelines;
                  if so, our tools for generating them must be fixed. DS and SR thought we might
                  want to survey membership on schema usage, but consensus from Council was that we
                  should first determine whether the bugs are easily fixable.</p>
               <p>
                  <note type="action"><label>SR</label> will be asked to report back on the severity
                     of the problems.</note>
               </p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Physical Bibliographies</head>
               <p>This item has to do with the <ref
                     target="http://listserv.brown.edu/?A1=ind0805&amp;L=TEI-PB">series of comments
                     on TEI-PB</ref> from Murray McGillivray <q>assessing the strengths and
                     weaknesses of P5 for physical bibliography</q>. LR proposes that someone from
                  Council should review the discussion thread and report back on anything we need to
                  take into account. As Physical Bibliography is a licensed workgroup, it is
                  appropriate for us to appoint a Council liaison to work with them on proposals. PS
                  was proposed, and agreed to take this role.</p>
               <p>
                  <note type="action"><label>PS</label> will review the messages on TEI-PB, confer
                     with Dot Porter, and report back to Council.</note>
               </p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Next Council Face-to-Face Meeting</head>
               <p>At our Galway meeting, sentiment was expressed for having two Consortium-funded
                  face-to-face Council working meetings per year. Earlier this summer, LR had
                  suggested an early October meeting in Paris as the most economical and feasible
                  possibility. However, discussion on this topic began with a caveat from DO that
                  existing TEI funds most likely make a second funded meeting impossible. Costs for
                  the Galway meeting came in somewhat over budget, and we also have the expense of
                  printing physical copies of the P5 Guidelines. Funding a second face-to-face would
                  use up Consortium reserves. </p>
               <p>DS noted that, cost aside, it would be difficult for some Council members (those
                  in North America in particular) to schedule long-distance travel in both October
                  and November (for the Members’ Meeting). Consensus was that a physical meeting
                  this October is not feasible, but we should make a formal proposal to the Board to
                  permit two face-to-face Council meetings in 2009, probably one in February/March
                  and a second around September.</p>
               <p>
                  <note type="action"><label>LR and DO</label> will make a concrete proposal to the
                     Board for the addition of a second FTF meeting in 2009.</note>
               </p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <head>Next Teleconference</head>
               <p>We will aim for at least two more teleconferences before the Members’ Meeting, one
                  to agree on our priorities for tasks to complete before the meeting, and another
                  to report back on implementation of the tasks and Guidelines fixes, along with a
                  progress report on the <title>Getting Started</title> guide.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </body>
   </text>
</TEI>
