<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<TEI.2 rend="nospilt">
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TEI Council Meeting <date>15 June 2007</date></title>
        <author>James Cummings</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <idno type="TEI">TC M 31</idno>
        <availability>
          <p>Freely available via TEI website.</p>
        </availability>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>Notes taken directly into TEI P4</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
    <revisionDesc>
      <change>
        <date value="2007-06-15"/>
        <respStmt>
          <name>James</name>
          <resp>editor</resp>
        </respStmt>
        <item>creation</item>
      </change>
    </revisionDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div>
        <p>The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Friday 15 June at 12:00 UTC.</p>
        <p>Participants: Syd Bauman (SB), David Birnbaum (DB), Lou Burnard (LB), Arianna Ciula (AC), James Cummings (Minutes;JC), Matthew Driscoll (MD), Dan O'Donnel (DO), Dot Porter (Left early;DP), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (Left early;LR), Conal Tuohy (CT), John Walsh (JW), and Christian Wittern (Chair;CW).</p>
<p>Council members unable to participate: Tone Merete Bruvik (TMB)</p>
      </div>
    </front>
    <body>
        <div>
          <head>Open action items</head>
          <p>CW reviewed action items from the Great Unified Report on progress made since the last
            meeting (<xptr url="http://lists.village.virginia.edu/pipermail/tei-council/2007/003098.html"/>). Most items in the Progress Report section were discussed:</p>
          <list type="gloss">
            <label>0 -- Change name of msDescription to msDesc and mention its existence in HD</label>
            <item>SB reports that this has been done.</item>
            <label>1 -- TRAC 329: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/329"/>  
              Merge att.datable and att.dateTime, using new name for value/dateValue</label>
            <item>SB reports that this has been done as part of the person/place workgroup</item>
            <label>2 -- TRAC 332: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/332"/>  
              proposal for dropping witDetail. Change witList to witGroup, allow it to self-nest,
              and drop included...</label>
            <item> DO hadn't completed this. LB circulated concerns about this on 2007-05-19, which
              was discussed on 2007-05-21, confirming LB's changes. <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Confirm trac #332 (witList/witDetail) is properly resolved.
                  <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>3 -- TRAC 349: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/349"/> Raise
              issue of editors' names on title page at Board</label>
            <item>DO reported that a vote had taken place on this and that it was approved by a
              majority of the Board. The decision was to have the TEI Consortium be the authors of
              the work, but DO will circulate the exact wording and Board decision. 
              <note type="action">
                <label>DO</label> Circulate Board decision with regard to title page and exact wording to Council.
                  <date>2007-06-22</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>Eds</label> Implement Board decision with regard to title page.
                  <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>4 -- TRAC 331: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/331"/> Solve
              the add/del/supplied/supress/substitution issue, including checking wording of
              chapter; LB to report back</label>
            <item>Proposal from MD had been circulated at Berlin; MD,
	    DO, and LB had not yet had time to progress this. Action
	    continuing.</item>
            <label>5 -- TRAC 330: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/330"/> Work
              on AB: tweak the parts of AB that can stay (send results to editors), indicate which
              parts need to be re-written (post to Trac)</label>
            <item>DO was originally assigned this, but LB claims this as an editors job to be done
              near date of publication. CW (as Council chair) was
	      requested to draft a
              list of workgroups and their members for editors to
	      include in appendix. 
Three tasks here:
<xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/330"/>,
<xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/348"/>,
<xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/348"/>   
<note
                type="action">
                <label>CW</label> Draft list of workgroups and their members for editors.
                  <date>2007-08-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>6 -- Improve wording discussing use of del in an example transcription </label>
            <item>DP reminded Council how this issue arose. LB reports that this was the use of gap
              to mark something a transcriber of speech had left something out. <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Confirm the gap in transcribed speech example and surrounding text
                has been clarified. <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>7 -- Find out ISBD recommendations, and suggest re-wording of paragraph in HD </label>
            <item>DP reported that she had had investigated and had no recommendations for
              re-wording of HD.</item>
            <label>8 -- TRAC 338: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/338"/>  
              Regularize glosses on *specs passim </label>
            <item>LB reported on the process suggested on the Council mailing list. SB pointed out
              the inconsistencies in gloss and desc. <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> Regularize glosses on *specs passim.<date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>9 -- Create model.headLike </label>
            <item>SB reports that LB has already done this. </item>
            <label>10 -- DP to send rest of errors to Council list </label>
            <item>DP reports that this has been done. LB reports that the errors have now been
              corrected. </item>
            <label>11 -- Recommend keeping 'machine-readable transcription' or not</label>
            <item>DP recommended removing it. LB justified its inclusion and SB reminded DO that
              this applies only the TEI file not the output. DP/JW accept that we leave the
              recommendation but agree with SB that a good compromise is to remove the word
              'strongly'. Council suggests the Editors tone down the
	      recommendation. <note type="action">
                <label>Eds</label> Review current wording in light of
		Council's recommendation.   <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>12 -- Fix wording in description of egXML</label>
            <item>DB reminded the Council that egXML claims to contain well-formed XML, but only
              does so if egXML is counted as the root element. The current wording needs to be
              rephrased. <note type="action">
                <label>DB</label> Propose a revision of egXML desc and send it to LB.
                  <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>13 -- Post errors noticed in VE </label>
            <item>JW reported this had been completed. <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Ensure errors reported by JW in VE have been corrected.
                  <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>14 -- Add discussion of PIs to CO.8.2.2 </label>
            <item>SR clarified the  purpose of this action (to mention
	    that PIs provide an alternative to use of the divGen
	    element). LB now understands and will do it. <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Add discussion of PIs to CO.8.2.2. <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>15 - 19 Skipped as all still to do</label>
            <item>As 15-19 are all on SB to do and have not been completed, discussion of them was
              bypassed. <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label>Change q to quote in MS.<date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> Finish 3066 to 4646 update.<date>2007-07-27</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> create second said proposal for q and said, post both.
                  <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> move postscript to a free standing ODD. <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>SB</label> remove wording of description of resp in prose PH.1.2 &amp;
                PH.1.3. <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>20 -- TRAC 339: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/339"/>  
              Stemma modeling using graph elements</label>
            <item> MD/DB haven't had time to do this yet but will make a concerted effort and
              understand the task at hand. If not done by deadline, it will be dropped for P5 1.0,
              which Council agreed would be a shame. <note type="action">
                <label>MD/DB</label> Stemma modeling using graph elements. <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>21 -- TRAC 334: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/334"/>  
              Discussion of @rend, possibilities of @rendRef </label>
            <item>JW related the concern as expressed on TEI-L that changing @rend would not be
              well-received by the TEI community. LB agreed that @rendRef (or similar) would be
              beneficial. All agreed that the TEI says nothing
	      concerning output; @rend and @rendRef are alternative
	      ways of documenting rendition of the source text. LB points out that more detailed
              reconsideration of global attributes is a different task. SR suggests a new module for
              rendition which would include @rendRef. LB notes that
	      there may be insufficient time to produce a
              new module for P5 1.0, but that they could prepare the way through warnings and
              discussion of the problem in P5 1.0. <note type="action">
                <label>JW</label> Rewrite rendition recommendations and evaluate whether possible
                for P5 1.0. <date>2007-08-01</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Prepare the ground for changes to rendition/@rend/@rendRef in P5
                1.1 if JW's recommendations cannot be included in P5 1.0.
                <date>2007-08-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
          </list>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>To Discuss</head>
          <list type="gloss">
            <label>TRAC 291: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/291"/>  Facsimile
              Markup -- Text and Image encoding</label>
            <item> CT reports that this is on track for P5 1.0. Council agreed that this is
              something that the TEI community wants. SB reminds Council that simplicity is what is
              needed for P5 1.0. LB was concerned about the timescale. CT reported on the work which
              has been done and asked Council to review at least the Comenius example in the next
              two weeks and comment to Council mailing list. He will then revise in light of this
              response. If not completed and submitted to editors by 2007-08-01, then it will not be
              included in P5 1.0. <note type="action">
                <label>ALL</label> Review work on facsimile markup
                <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/291"/>, especially Comenius example, report
                to Council list. <date>2007-06-29</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>CT</label> Redraft facsimile markup material in response to Council concerns.
                  <date>2007-08-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>TRAC 333: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/333"/>  Merge
              Corpus chapter into DS</label>
            <item>LB asked for clarification of this action. Concrete
	    suggestions for change were needed. SB,  DP,
              and MD, and any other Council members present will
	      discuss next week whilst in Victoria for the DHSI and come up
              with some specific  proposals. <note type="action">
                <label>SB, DP, MD</label> Discuss merging of Corpus chapter in DS, and if necessary
                come up with concrete proposals for implementation (or not).
                <date>2007-06-29</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Implement any recommendations concerning the merging of
                Corpus into DS.<date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>TRAC 341: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/341"/>  Rethink ST
              contents and its position in the Guidelines</label>
            <item>DB reported that after examination he can't see where else it can go in the
              Guidelines. It must be before the chapters which follow it. SB recommended removing
              discussions of schema languages from this chapter and placing them elsewhere. <note
                type="action">
                <label>LB</label> Revise ST to be more ODD focused and move any schema specific
                material to chapter on ODD specification. <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>TRAC 343: <xptr url="http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/trac/TEIP5/ticket/343"/>  Rework NH
              chapter</label>
            <item>As TMB was not present, SB reported on her behalf that work is progressing on
              this. SB summarised issues of how the Guidelines deal with problems of overlap in P5
              and that the chapter doesn't differentiate them or make clear recommendations. SB
              suggests making this a separate module, removing next/prev/part from SA. Since SB
              doesn't have the time to work on this TMB should provide concrete proposals to Council
              list by 1 July. Concern was expressed at the
	      feasibility of both creating a new module and making
	      major changes in an existing one (SA) in the time available. <note type="action">
                <label>TMB</label> Provide concrete proposals to Council list on necessary
                reorganisation/reworking of NH. <date>2007-07-01</date>
              </note>
            </item>
            <label>Dictionary Chapter</label>
            <item> LR reported on the progress of the Dictionary chapter. Revision should be
              finished in 2 weeks, after which the Editors will review
	      the material. <note type="action">
                <label>LR</label> Complete final revision of Dictionary chapter and submit to
                Editors in two weeks. <date>2007-06-29</date>
              </note>
              <note type="action">
                <label>Eds</label> Editors to integrate final Dictionary revisions into
                Guidelines. <date>2007-07-13</date>
              </note>
            </item>
          </list>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>Reports</head>
          <p><label>Person/Places Meeting</label> LB reported on the Person/Places meeting that took
            place at CCH. He has finished a draft  based on the recommendations of this and
            the previous meetings. As this is a significant revision to existing
            person/place/organisation markup he desires Council and TEI Community comment on the
            draft. Hence, he has repurposed an existing mailing list to use as a forum for such
            discussion. CW queried the timeframe for the entire process. LB said that the draft
            would be posted and announced to Council and TEI-L with people directed to comment on
            that mailing list. This consultation period will last for just under a month. <note
              type="action">
              <label>LB</label> Post person/places draft, and announce its existence to TEI-L
              directing community to comment on that mailing list asap.<date>2007-06-18</date>
            </note>
            <note type="action">
              <label>ALL</label> Comment on new draft of person/places recommendations on that
              mailing list as directed by LB's public announcement.<date>2007-07-13</date>
            </note>
            <note type="action">
              <label>LB</label> Revise person/places draft with regard to TEI Community comment,
              announce final draft version on mailing list.<date>2007-08-01</date>
            </note>
          </p>
          <p>
            <label>ISO FSD activity</label> LR reported on the ISO FSD activity and TEI involvement
            with that. There is an upcoming ISO meeting concerning it where a final draft is
            desireable. It was suggested that we either keep it basically as it is, or drop it
            entirely, which the Council felt would be a shame. Merging FSD and FS into a single
            module would make it easier to keep stable and in step
	    with the ISO standards. At very least a health
            warning could be applied to current chapters, but it would be good to have a final draft
            before the next ISO meeting. LB agreed to limit the time spent on this task, and abandon it if not feasible. <note type="action">
              <label>LB</label> Merge FSD and Feature Structures into a single module with other
              necessary revisions.<date>2007-08-01</date>
            </note>
          </p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>Further Planning</head>
          <p>CW reiterated that most things need to be done by mid/end July. SR suggested a due date
            of 1 August for all technical changes. In answer to SB's concern that this was too
            early, it was agreed that this was not a complete technical freeze, but anything added
            post 1 August must be in a complete state for approval and proofreading by Council, or
            be deemed necessary work that arises from intermediate revision or proofreading. Council
            will not accept anything new after this date; only crucial revisions and bug
            fixes will be possible. 
           <note type="action">
              <label>ALL</label> Complete any outstanding assigned items by 13 July, unless otherwise scheduled. 
                <date>2007-07-13</date>
            </note>
           <note type="action">
              <label>ALL</label> Any and all technical revisions completed by 1 August.
                <date>2007-08-01</date>
            </note>
          </p>
        </div>
        <div>
          <head>Next Meeting</head>
          <p>The next teleconference was scheduled for Tuesday 17 July, 12pm noon UTC. This will
            be:<lb/> 06:00 MDT in Calgary,<lb/> 07:00 CDT in Chicago,<lb/> 08:00 EDT in New
            York,<lb/> 13:00 BST in London,<lb/> 14:00 CEST in Paris,<lb/> 21:00 JST in Kyoto,
            and<lb/> Wed 18 July, 00:00 NZST in Wellington.<lb/> As a result the previous deadline
            of 2007-07-15 for completing previously assigned tasks (unless otherwise scheduled) 
            was moved forward to 2007-07-13 in order to give Council time to post and react to 
            work completed in sufficient time before the teleconference. </p>
        </div>
    </body>
  </text>
</TEI.2>
