<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.tei-c.org/release/xml/tei/custom/schema/relaxng/teilite.rng" type="xml"?>
<TEI xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" rend="nospilt" xml:id="tcm39">
   <teiHeader>
      <fileDesc>
         <titleStmt>
            <title>TEI Council Meeting <date when="2008-10-07">7 October 2008</date>
            </title>
            <author>Peter Boot</author>
         </titleStmt>
         <publicationStmt>
            <date>23 October 2008</date>
            <availability>
               <p>Licensed under <ptr target="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/uk/"/>
               </p>
            </availability>
         </publicationStmt>
         <sourceDesc>
            <p>From edited notes transcribed as text</p>
         </sourceDesc>
      </fileDesc>
      <revisionDesc>
         <change when="2008-10-23" who="#PB">
            Peter Boot minor changes</change>
          <change when="2008-10-07" who="#PB">
              <name xml:id="PB">Peter Boot</name> draft </change>
      </revisionDesc>
   </teiHeader>
   <text>
      <front>
         <div>
            <p>The TEI Council teleconference meeting took place on Tuesday 7 October 2008 at 13:00
               UTC.</p>
            <p>
               <hi>Participants:</hi> Gabriel Bodard (GB), Peter Boot (PB, minutes), Tone Merete Bruvik
                (TMB, briefly), Lou Burnard (LB), Arianna Ciula (AC),  James Cummings (JC), Dan
                O'Donnell (DO, briefly), Elena Pierazzo (EP), Sebastian Rahtz (SR), Laurent Romary (LR, Chair), Paul Schaffner (PS),
               and John Walsh (JW).</p>
            <p>Council members unable to participate: David Sewell.</p>
         </div>
      </front>
      <body>
          <div>
              <head>Notes in wiki</head>
              <p>LR asks whether there are problems with using the Council Wiki space to make notes for upcoming  
              meetings. No-one has objections.</p>
          </div>
          <div>
              <head>Minutes meeting 21 August 2008</head>
              <p>Approved.</p>
          </div>
          <div>
              <head>TEI P5 Bugs and Feature Requests from SourceForge</head>
              <p>LB notes:</p>
              <list>
                  <item>there have been 4 new items since the previous meeting; they presented no special difficulties and the 
                  team at Oxford has dealt with them;</item>
                  <item>the 'green' items (see list at <ptr target="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/Council/Working/tcw15.html"/>) 
                  have been dealt with according to the decisions taken at the last teleconference;</item>
                  <item>of the 'amber' items, issue 2055864 (Remove redundant iso-* attributes) needs more work to determine 
                      exactly which attributes are redundant;</item>
                  <item>of the 'red' items:
                      <list>
                          <item>1891589 (sequenceOptional (etc.?) disrupt 'may contain' ref. info) and 2021933 (egXML content model) have 
                          been dealt with;</item>
                          <item>1925127 (Provide discussion of taxonomical names) needs more work, and as Council we 
                          probably do not have the necessary expertise; <note type="action">LB will draw up a problem statement, 
                              LR will ask for volunteers  on TEI-L</note></item>
                          <item>1933198 (&lt;precision> element needed): GB and JC did some work on this, but there is not as yet 
                              a finished proposal. <note type="action">GB and LB will discuss this further</note></item>
                          <item>2002418 (New element = &lt;clarification>?): there is a proposal from the Ibsen project. 
                              <note type="action">EP will take ownership of it</note></item>
                      </list>
                  </item>
              </list>
              <p>We will produce a new release before the members meeting. We shouldn't introduce further changes in the 
              specifications, to avoid breaking things. Textual changes to the <title>Guidelines</title> can be made up to a week before the 
              meeting.</p>
              <p>A Korean translation will be added in the forthcoming release.</p>
          </div>
          <div>
              <head>Council report at the London Meeting</head>
              <p>LR's draft for the report is discussed. The draft looks good. A few remarks are made:</p>
              <p>About the SIG's: not all SIG's are created equal. Some SIG's are mainly a support group for the community (EP); other SIG's 
                  are expected to come up with proposals for changes to the <title>Guidelines</title>. LR: In the latter case, a Council liaison 
                  person is necessary, but the liaison is not necessarily the SIG chair. Nevertheless all currently existing SIG's have a
                  Council liaison: correspondence (DS), Manuscripts (EP), Physical bibliography (PS), Libraries (JW), Music (GB), 
                  Text and Graphics (JW), Ontologies (AC) and (not yet official) Scientific Bibliography (LR).  
              </p>
              <p>About the plans for the future: PB suggests the term 'P6' is to be avoided. We shouldn't suggest another release that breaks 
                  backward compatibility is in the works. AC mentions (and mails after the meeting) other possible lines of expansion: 
                  recommendations on integrating with/mapping to other standards, collection of style sheet templates by 
                  module and connection to other outreach projects. LR asks for more input on plans for the future. 
                  <note type="action">ALL: provide input to LR.</note>
              </p>
              <p>There will be more time available for the Council report than before, as the voting and counting no longer takes place 
                  during the business meeting. LR and DO will discuss the schedule.</p>
          </div>
          <div>
              <head>TEI releases and versions</head>
              <p>There were a couple of inconsistencies or limitations in the way we announce or identify new TEI versions. 
                  The package names at SF were not very clear; SR fixed that. Schema's now also mention the TEI version that 
                  they are based on. Remaining issues: Roma does not say which TEI version it is based on (after the meeting 
                  PB added bug number 2152071 in SF) and we should decide whether we want to use the SF News mechanism. 
                  Currently, the latest news item is the release of P5 last year; we should either bring news more often or not use the 
                  mechanism at all. <note type="action">LR/DO: raise this with board and/or put on agenda for next f2f meeting.</note>
              </p>
              <p>The upcoming release will be P5 1.2.0, as there are changes in the ODD source, not just in the text. 
                  <note type="action">Oxford team: prepare overview of changes for LR to announce on TEI-L</note> 
              </p>
          </div>
          <div>
              <head>Placement of schematron constraints in ODD</head>
              <p>SR prepared a note that argues, reluctantly, for adding a new element, <gi>constraint</gi>, even though the 
              existing <gi>content</gi> element also contains constraints. The existing element might be thought of as a 
              specialisation of the new element. Another option would be to use a <att>type</att> attribute on 
              <gi>content</gi>.</p>
              <p>The Council agrees that adding a <gi>constraint</gi> element seems the best solution, even though there 
                  may be limited issues of backwards compatibility. 
                  <note type="action">SR will prepare a draft proposal, including examples (possibly drawn from the many places 
                      in the <title>Guidelines</title> where we say: do this in such and such a way, even though 
                      it cannot, as yet, be enforced).</note></p>
          </div>
          <div>
              <head>Getting Started document</head>
              <p>A number of council members (LR, AC, JC, DS, PB) are working on a section of the document. 
                  There should be a draft text at the members meeting, 
                  but it will not be not sufficiently vetted to create much furore about it. There is still room for people who want to join in.
                  See <ptr target="http://www.tei-c.org/wiki/index.php/Getting_Started"/>. 
                  EP will contribute material about selecting an XML editor, that others may want to enhance.
              </p>
          </div>
          <div>
              <head>Subjects for next meetings</head>
              <list>
                  <item>Can we offer a validation or other processing service for TEI documents?</item>
                  <item>Stable references to TEI objects</item>
                  <item>Create something like a TEI badge that sites that are built on TEI can display</item>
              </list>
          </div>
          <div>
              <head>Practicalities for members meeting</head>
              <p>It is important to register, as the wireless access will use individual passwords created for registrees only.</p>
              <p>Council membership will be indicated on the meeting badge, so people will know whom to address with their 
              questions, complaints and ideas.</p>
              <p>Maybe we should have a Council working lunch.</p>
              <p>AC: SIG's or other groups that need meeting room, please come forward.</p>
          </div>
      </body>
   </text>
</TEI>