<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>TEI Council Conference Call</title>
        <author>Syd Bauman</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <authority>TEI Consortium</authority>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>None, this electronic version is the original.</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
  <text>
    <front>
      <div type="glossary">
        <list>
          <head>Initials Used for People</head>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div>
	<p>CW, SB, LB, MD, DB, DD, JF, SR, AB, SS, NS, EV, PW. started
	13:05; LR joined 13:08.</p>
      </div>
    </front>
<!--
> John Smith will post his Sanskrit problems to the <choice> list.
> 
> Re: choice: Lou will revise the ODD, post to <choice> list
> 
> re: meta: turns out that we've neglected the area of 
> attribute/element, through a mistake; DD will complete his chapter 
> and express constraints through prose for now; revisit its inclusion 
> after ODD freeze is over. Freeze ODD for six months (except bug 
> fixes).
> 
> LR will check if current FSD chapter is consistent with FSR chapter (?)
> 
> Give Matthew Driscoll two weeks to polish up MS desc, then post to MS 
> lists for comment.
> 
> Editors will come up with a proposal for handling the sourceforge discussion
> 
> Send statements of activity to Christian: chairs of workgroups in particular

-->
    <body>
      <div>
	<p>LB has (eventually) sent the Sanskrit examples; no response
	  from JS yet (not suprisingly). CW reports he phoned
	  a few days ago and they sought a solution. Plan is for JS to
	  post his problem to the choice list.
	</p>
	<p>LB to find LR's URL for minutes.</p>
	<p>P5 -> SF; SB recommends delay for deleted chaps and a few
	  global changes; DD disagrees, suggests just note deleted
	  chapters as bugs.</p>
	<p>JF yet to actually post a <title>from the Chair</title>, is
	  holding out for election slate. JF wants a process, will
	  give Board &amp; Council a week's notice heads-up. JF is
	  thinking of posting these quarterly.</p>
	<p><note type="action">
	    <name>SS &amp; JF</name>
	    <resp>post a call for more SIGs &mdash; if you
	  want to form a SIG, here's how.</resp>	  </note>
	  <note type="action">
	    <name>DD</name>
	    <resp>post updated list of issues presented in Ghent to
	      Council</resp>
	    <dueDate>2 weeks</dueDate>
	  </note>
	  <note type="action">
	    <name>SB &amp; DD</name>
	    <resp>updated SA checked in</resp>
	    <dueDate>2 weeks</dueDate>
	  </note>
	  <note type="action">
	    <name>JF &amp; DD</name>
	    <resp>get together and submit MIME proposal</resp>
	    <dueDate>after SA checked in</dueDate>
	  </note>
	</p>
	<p>Discussion of ODD, freeze or improve? SR suggests TD be
	  frozen (bug fixes, of course) as is; SB concurs, but would
	  like it to be explicit that we plan to improve ODD in the
	  future. SR concedes an oversight on META's part (no way to
	  express some things that are expressable in RelaxNG,
	  particularly co-occurence constraints), but suggests (and
	  all agree) that repair should be deferred (time span <q>6
	    months</q> used in lieu of a real number).</p>
	<p>FS close to final status, most recent changes are not of
	  the TEI part.</p>
	<p>
	  <note type="action">
	    <name>LR</name>
	    <resp>investigate if P4 FSD works to describe new FSs.</resp>
	    <dueDate>low priority</dueDate>
	  </note>
	</p>
	<p>MD on MS description. Not much. Still waiting on feedback
	  from task force.<note type="action">
	    <name>MD (DD, SB, MP)</name>
	    <resp>finish up MD</resp>
	    <dueDate>2 weeks</dueDate>
	  </note>
	</p>
	<p>JF on PB, little progress since July. LB suggests
	  low-hanging fruit, JF will send to list.</p>
	<p><note type="action">
	    <name>editors</name>
	    <resp>suggestion for how to handle this SF stuff, how to
	      get Council input.</resp>
	  </note>
	</p>
	<p><note type="action">
	    <name>Councilors</name>
	    <resp>read and comment on each SF feature request</resp>
	  </note>
	  <note type="action">
	    <name>Councilors</name>
	    <resp>submit report for MM to CW</resp>
	    <dueDate>end of month</dueDate>
	  </note>
	</p>
	<p>Next concall tentatively scheduled for 2004-11-29 13:00Z.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
  </text>
</TEI.2>

 



