<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd" [
    <!ATTLIST xptr url CDATA #IMPLIED>
    <!ATTLIST xref url CDATA #IMPLIED>
    ]>
<TEI.2>
<teiHeader>
<fileDesc>
<titleStmt>
<title>Agenda for TEI Council Meeting, May 13-15, 2004</title>
</titleStmt>
<publicationStmt>
<distributor>TEI</distributor>
</publicationStmt>
<sourceDesc><p>Pre-meeting version of the agenda</p></sourceDesc>
</fileDesc>
<revisionDesc>
<change>
<date>May 9, 2004</date>
<respStmt>
<name>Lou</name>
<resp>Draft</resp>
</respStmt>
<item>Updated URLs for PB workgroup documents</item>
</change>
<change>
<date>May 6, 2004</date>
<respStmt>
<name>Lou</name>
<resp>Draft</resp>
</respStmt>
<item>Posted May 6 to TEI-Council mailing list</item>
</change>
</revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>
<text>


<body><div>
    <p>The following have confirmed attendance:</p>
    <p>Council Members: 
        <list type="simple">
        <item>Alejandro Bia</item>
        <item>David J. Birnbaum</item>
        <item>Matthew Driscoll</item>
        <item>David Durand</item>
        <item>Julia Flanders</item>
        <item>Sebastian Rahtz</item>
        <item>Laurent Romary</item>
        <item>Susan Schreibman</item>
        <item>Edward Vanhoutte</item>
        <item>Natasha Smith</item>
        <item>C. Perry Willett</item>
        <item>Christian Wittern, Chair</item>
    </list></p>
    <p>Editors:
        <list type="simple">
            <item>Lou Burnard</item>
            <item>Syd Bauman</item>
        </list>
    </p>

    <p><hi rend="bold">Time and Place</hi>: The meeting is scheduled
    to start at 1400 on Thursday May 13th, at the Royal Academy of
    Dutch language and Literature, 18 Koningstraat, Gent, and concluding at 1800. Friday
    we'll meet again, starting at 0900, at the same location, and
    concluding at 1800. If necessary, the meeting will continue
    on Saturday. Logistical information is available at the website
 <xptr
    url="http://www.kantl.be/ctb/event/2004/teicouncil.htm"/></p>
<p>Timings below are highly provisional guesstimates...</p>
</div>
<div>
    <head>Thursday May 13th</head>
        <list>
<item>Review of the agenda for the meeting, and any outstanding items
from the council's last call (<xptr url="tcm10.html"/>) not covered
elsewhere. (15 mins)</item>
            <item>Migration Workgroup Report. (<xptr
	    url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/MI/"/>). 
Alex Bia and Susan Schreibman to  summarize recommendations and any
outstanding issues for Council review. (30 mins)</item>
<item>Proposed new Workgroup on Physical Bibliography. (See <xptr url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/PB/"/>). Julia Flanders to
present charge and workplan for Council review. (30 mins) </item>
            <item>Break</item>
<item>Current state of P5. The editors will briefly summarize the
current state of affairs: see <xptr url="http://www.tei-c.org/Drafts/edw81.html"/>  (15
mins)</item>
<item>Maintenance and development using Sourceforge; associated
licensing issues. (Sebastian to outline technical issues. Council to
review its earlier recommendation to Board) (30 mins) </item>
<item>Report from "OpenSP for Windows" project (see <xptr url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/MI/Tools/osxReport.txt"/>. (5 mins)</item>
<item>Report from Sanskrit word-end workgroup tabled by John Smith
(<xptr url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/CE/cew10.pdf"/> (15 mins)</item>
        </list>
</div>
<div><head>Friday, May 14th</head>
<list>
            <item>Outputs from the MetaLanguage Task Force Report
(<xptr url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/META/FASC-td.pdf"/>. Sebastian Rahtz/Editors to present
  content of new ODD system and any outstanding unresolved
  issues. (90 mins)</item>
<item>Internationalization and interoperability. 
Sebastian Rahtz/Alejandro Bia to present work on I18N facilities in
P5. (20 mins) </item>
<item>Character Encoding Workgroup outputs. (<xptr
url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/CE/FASC-ch.pdf"/> and <xptr
url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/CE/FASC-wd.pdf"/>). Christian Wittern to present
content of the new draft chapters, and summarize any outstanding
issues. Council to discuss, and determine whether these are now ready
for publication. (45 mins)</item>
            <item>Lunch</item>            
             <item>Draft from the joint ISO-TEI Activity on Feature
	     Structures. (<xptr url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/FS/FASC-fs.pdf"/>).
	     Laurent Romary to summarize formal status of draft within
	     ISO, proposed changes to P4 recommendations, and any
	     outstanding unresolved issues. Council to determine
	     whether draft is ready for inclusion in P5. (30 mins) </item>
             <item>Manuscript Description Taskforce outputs. (<xptr
	    url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/MS/FASC-ms.pdf"/>). Matthew Driscoll to
	present intended changes to
content of the  draft chapter, and summarize any outstanding
issues, for review by Council. (30 mins)</item>
<item>Outputs from Standoff workgroup. (<xptr
url="http://www.tei-c.org/Activities/SO/sow09.html"/>). David Durand
to present proposed changes
 to P4 recommendations on linking, and summarize any outstanding
issues, for review by Council. (30 mins)</item>
<item>Timetable for P5 publication. Council to assess current
published plans at <xptr url="http://www.tei-c.org/P5/"/> and agree
revisions. (60 mins)</item>
</list></div>
          <div>
            <head>Saturday, May 15th</head>
           <list>
               <item>If other items are added to the agenda, or if we fall behind the schedule proposed above, we may meet from 9-noon on Saturday.</item>
        </list>
</div>
    </body>
</text>
</TEI.2>
