<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="../Stylesheets/teixlite.css"?>
<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 PUBLIC "-//TEI//DTD TEI Lite XML ver. 1//EN" "../Lite/DTD/teixlite.dtd"
[
  <!ATTLIST xptr url CDATA #IMPLIED >
  <!ATTLIST xref url CDATA #IMPLIED >
]>
<TEI.2>
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>Towards the  1.0 release of TEI P5</title>
      </titleStmt>
      <publicationStmt>
        <p>For discussion</p>
      </publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>All my own work</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
    <revisionDesc>
<change><date value="2006-07-18">Tue, 18 Jul 06</date>
	<respStmt><name>Syd Bauman</name>
	<resp>editor</resp></respStmt>
	<item>a couple of minor changes; added 1 comment-note to Lou</item>
	</change>
<change><date value="2006-07-18"/>
	<respStmt><name>Lou</name>
	<resp>editor</resp></respStmt>
	<item>further revisions per syd's email</item>
	</change>
<change><date value="2006-07-17">Mon, 17 Jul 06</date>
	<respStmt><name>Syd Bauman</name>
	<resp>editor</resp></respStmt>
	<item>buncha minor revisions</item>
	</change>
<change><date value="2006-07-16"/>
	<respStmt><name>Lou</name>
	<resp>editor</resp></respStmt> <item>First draft.</item>
	</change>
    </revisionDesc>
  </teiHeader>

  <text>
    <body>
      <head>Towards the 1.0 release of TEI P5</head>

<p>At the Kyoto meeting, Council identified 21 items which would need
to be in place as prerequisites for a Release 1.0. These items were further
classified as <q>essential</q>, <q>desirable</q>, and <q>nice</q>, as follows:

<list type="gloss">
<label>essential</label>
<item><list>
<item>chapter review, including review of examples</item>
<item>decision on module dependency architecture made, and if yes implemented</item>
<item>remove instructions on how to invoke TEI DTD from each chapter</item>
<item>New user needs to have an easy way to generate customization ODD and generate schemas</item>
<item>text of prose matches specs</item>
<item>*Specs frozen! :-)</item>
<item>Dictionary rewrite completed</item>
<item>Modification and Conformance chapters rewritten</item>
</list></item>
<label>desirable</label>
<item><list>
<item>resolve all feature requests</item>
<item>inserting missing examples</item>
<item>phys bib</item>
<item>prosopography</item>
<item>Text Critical rewrite completed</item>
</list></item>
<label>Nice</label>
<item><list>
<item>cookbook</item>
<item>desktop java-based Roma</item>
<item>mechanism for an instance indicating the schema(s) to which it should conform</item>
<item>P4 to P5 migration report</item>
<item>P4 to P5 migration tool</item>
<item>PDF version of Guidelines</item>
<item>	PDF version of reference doc (of customization)</item>
<item>Terminology rewrite completed</item>
</list>
</item>
</list>
</p>
<p>After discussion and review of this list, the TEI editors now
wish to present a revised version for Council's consideration. Note
that the Editors' primary objective is to ensure that a usable 1.0
Release of TEI P5 is made available as soon as possible. We consider
this to be of higher priority for the Council and editors than developing usability tools and
tutorial guides, important those these are. With a stable release of
TEI P5, production of such support materials is something that can,
and will, be readily undertaken by many agencies. Without it, such
tools can only ever be experimental.

<list type="gloss">
<label>Essential</label>
<item><list>

<item>Quick review of outstanding Class-actions. We need to check that
the class changes initiated in the Oxford meeting over a year ago have
been completed as far as this is possible.</item>


<item>Chapter-by-chapter review of TEI P5. This has several
aspects. Although determining the coverage and content of each chapter
is something on which external reviewers may well have much to
contribute, ultimately it is the editors' responsibility to ensure
that P5 appears to be an integrated and well-edited whole, worthy of
its predecessors. Questions to be considered during this review include:

<list>

<item>does each chapter generate functional schema and DTD fragments,
at least as far as can be determined from the corresponding test file
in the Test tree?</item>

<item>are there sufficient examples in the chapter for a
non-specialist reader to understand how the elements (etc.)
illustrated should be used? are the examples all correct and
valid?</item>

<item>are the descriptions and other parts of the element
specification documents referenced from each chapter consistent with
the intended usage described in each chapter?</item>

<item>has the prose of each chapter been read by both editors for
house-style, consistency and clarity of expression, mid-Atlantic
spelling, etc.?	See further <xref
url="../Vault/ED/edw38.txt">EDW38</xref> which is probably in need of
an update. 
</item>

</list>
</item>
<item><p>Survey of outstanding feature requests (on SourceForge and on TEI-L and
elsewhere). Ensuring that all outstanding requests are properly signed off in
some way is obviously desirable; however, at least simply taking stock of them we consider to be
essential. We
		  propose therefore to carry out an initial
		  <soCalled>triage</soCalled> review of all current requests,
categorising them as <q>satisfied</q> (i.e. we have implemented the
proposal in 1.0),
<q>inappropriate</q> (i.e. we have considered but on balance reject
the proposal), <q>candidate</q> (i.e. we plan to incorporate the
suggestion in 1.0, or the proposal needs more discussion), or <q>potential</q> (i.e. we plan to incorporate
the suggestion in 1.1 or a subsequent release).

A standing
document listing  those in the last two categories will be produced, and
will be used to provide input to the P5 implementation work plan. </p>
<p>Note that some of the specific items listed below are already the
subject of feature requests.</p></item>

<item>Should P5 support the notion of module dependency? we have now
introduced a way for a module to specify that it has a dependency on
some other module (the <ident type="attrName">depends</ident> attribute on
<gi>moduleSpec</gi>). It is less clear how this should be used, or
whether its usage will have an impact on the rest of P5. Input from
Council on how much priority we should give to this question would be
useful. There seems to have been no follow up to Sebastian's posting
on the topic: so far, we tend to agree with his view that there is no
need for this feature. <!-- LB: what posting do you mean? there was lots -->
<!-- of follow-up to the "module dependency" posting of 05-22 17:51 -->
</item>
<item>We think that any DTD-specific prose that occurs is within a
		chapter slated for complete re-write anyway
		(modification, conformance, or multiple hierarchies); checking that this is the case is a part of the
chapter review.</item>
<item>We believe that we have adequate tools for the authoring of
usable ODDs and the generation of schemas from them. While it is clear
		that better, even more user-friendly tools are an
		important aspect of the future of TEI, better
introductory software is not needed for the production of P5, and
		therefore we do not think it should be part of our current brief.</item>
<item>The point at which the specification documents are frozen is
probably the defining moment for a 1.0 release of TEI P5. The licence
we have given ourselves to break backwards compatibility will be
revoked at that point. In other words, although we expect further
development beyond 1.0, this will have to be done without breaking
either existing documents or existing schemas. Obvious  exceptions
to this general principal include fixes to egregious errors, and changes caused
		by corresponding changes in an external specification. This and related issues
need to be explored in the Conformance and Modification
chapters. Revision of those chapters should therefore, in our view, be given a
higher priority than it currently enjoys.</item>
<item>Although further revision of the dictionary chapter is
desirable, we believe its current state to be adequate for
publication, subject to the chapter review process described
above.</item>
<item>Earlier this month, we learned that the original author of the
Terminology chapter (Alan Melby) is keen to take on the task of
revising it, which has been long in abeyance. This is, obviously, very
desirable; however, as with the Physical Bibliography chapter, we do
not feel that release 1.0 of P5 should be delayed waiting for it to
happen.</item>
</list></item>
<label>Desirable</label>
<item><list>
<item>Feature Requests: as noted above, we consider a review of
outstanding feature
requests to be essential. It is also  desirable to confirm with all
those who sent in such requests that they are aware of how we have
resolved the issue concerned and are at least not very annoyed about it.</item>
<item>By "missing examples" we understand the need to ensure that all
chapters adequately illustrate the features documented. This is part
of the Chapter review process. </item>
<item>Inclusion of the new material on Physical Bibliography just received is
classed here as desirable rather than essential, largely because we
don't yet know how much work is entailed in making it compatible with
the rest of the Guidelines. It seems likely that much of 
it will be useful as providing (a) a specific illustration of how to do stand off
markup (b) a specific illustration of how to define a radically
different schema based on the physical rather than the logical
organization of a codex. We are less sure about the very detailed
proposals for analytic bibliographic description, partly because these
 need to be
reviewed more widely by experts in the field, partly because of the
amount of effort involved in writing a very detailed new ODD
specification. We would appreciate input from Council as to the
priority we should assign this work. </item>
<item>The deliverables from the Personography activity have now been
integrated into P5, but will need a considerable amount of further work as a part
of the Chapter review process. It has been suggested that it would
 be desirable to expand the treatment of placenames in a similar way,
 so that gazeteers and similar sources of geographical metadata could
 be handled in a way analogous to the way that biographical data is
 treated. Council's opinion on that would also be useful.</item>
<item>In Kyoto, revision of the  chapter on Text Criticism was
 regarded as desirable, but we are not aware of any activity currently
aiming to produce such revisions, nor of what exactly needs changing. If Council wishes to sponsor or
promote  such a revision, this will need to be set up very soon.
</item>
<item>Minor revision of some aspects of the Feature System Declaration
chapter is likely to take place over the next couple of months as a
result of the continuing ISO/TEI liaison.</item>
<item>Completion of revision of the chapter on handling multiple
hierarchies is also highly desirable: the material currently in P5 is
very dated, and although new material has been received it has yet to
be integrated with it.</item>
</list></item>
<label>Nice</label>
<item>The items listed under this category in Kyoto are all in hand to
a greater or lesser extent. As none of them (except terminology on
which see above) is a strictly editorial matter, we do not consider
them further here.
</item></list>
</p>

      <!-- LB: I've toned the following down a bit, because I consider -->
<!-- finishing the CLASS system work and tying up loose ends from the -->
<!-- war on attributes, and perhaps even CF, MD, &amp; NH higher -->
<!-- priority than feature requests -->
<p>As noted above, an initial review of all
feature requests is of very high priority. From this exercise we expect to derive a list of
work items. However, it's already clear what some of those work items
will be, irrespective of whether or not they have been specifically
requested. In no particular order, here is a short list of major work
items we think ought to be addressed. We have not yet decided which of
these are essential for release 1.0, and which could be deferred to
1.1 (or beyond).</p>

<list type="ordered">
	<item>The content model for <gi>body</gi> needs review with an
	  eye towards
better use of the class system. In particular, it would be desirable
	  to be able to remove elements (including numbered <gi>divN</gi>s) without producing ambiguous content
models</item>
	<item>Should <gi>note</gi> be a global element? If so, how? Related to this,
there is a need for a grouping element which can associate any of some
identifiable number of metadata elements with an annotation or
comment. We could do this by something like the <gi>assertion</gi>
element proposed originally in the Personography exercise; 
	  other possibilities include the introduction of a special mechanism to allow for
	  <gi>xxxGroup</gi> elements for each <gi>xxx</gi>; a
	  special-purpose pointer attribute; and a special-purpose
	  <gi>link</gi> element. </item>
<item>Application-specific Information needs a home in the
header. There is a proposal in SF for this, but it is very specific to
one type of application and needs to be generalised.
</item>
<item>Definition of an appropriate content model for "anorexic prose"
in the header. See my (as yet uncommented on) note of 10 June to council with
subject line "Reduced phrase proposals". </item>
<item>Definition of a specific solution, or at least decisions as to
best practice recommendations, for the inclusion of SVG in a TEI
document. This may or may not be the same as that old chestnut about
how to handle TEI documents which consist of page images, or how to
align page images with page transcripts, or how to do detailed image
annotation in TEI as per Victorian practice.
</item>
<item>How to handle regularisation of names, without recourse to
persons.</item>
<item>[Your nasty problem here]</item>
</list>


</body>
  </text></TEI.2>
